Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
5149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, GA 30345

March 22, 1988

Honorable Pat Swindall
Congressman from Georgia
House Office Building
'Washington, DC 20515

Dear Pat:

Thanks for your letter of March 15 re the humane treatment
of animals.

Pat, I realize that all members of Congress have to be most
carefu1 in re to members of the NRA and our so-called scien-
tists, but I hope you will also take a look at the other side.

I am not now, and have never been a worshipper of researchers,
and I never will be. As long as any two doctors disagree as
to the use of animals for research, I am against their use.

Please take some time to read the enclosures which might open
your eyes, and if you need or want further information, con—
tact the American Anti—Vivisection Society.

All is not as the researcherswould have the general public
believe, and if the general public took time to make some in-
vestigations of their own, they might find out some things

which.would finally open their eyes about using animals in
research.

Sincerely,

(hhs.) Constance F. Yarbrough

(Bil gMWﬁM 5am Vac/ﬁ’if , 7461M’él/ML W7 Wye/IVWJ

 




 

THE AV'MRGAZINE - February 1988

/¥.t.EVERAL ALTERNATIVES TO
USING ANIMALS IN LABS
by W. Ryckman Caplan, M.D.

No sane human being wants to see other peo-
ple suffer, and I would venture to say this
.' view extends to animals, regardless of one’s opin-
ion of the ethics of animal research.

For that reason, if for no other, the combined
theory of replacement, reduction and refinement
of the use of animals in research should be de-
veloped, encouraged and funded in our nation’s
research laboratories.

These “alternatives” to the use of animals in
laboratory practices fall into seven major
categories:

* Human studies. This includes clinical, ep-
idemiological, post-mortem and neomoit
investigations. Most substances known to
cause cancer in humans have been identi-
fied by epidemiological studies, not animal
tests.

* In vitro techniques. These are used to study
tissues, cells or cellular components in lab-
oratory containers. In vitro techniques have
been used in research on AIDS to isolate,
identify and concentrate the AIDS virus and
are now being used to screen drugs rapidly
for anti-AIDS virus activity.

* Mathematical models. These are used to
describe a biological system in mathemat-
ical terms to predict novel features. A

 

mathematical model has been designed as
a potential replacement for the animal—based
LD50 test, which estimates the dose of a
substance needed to kill 50 percent of the
test animals.

Instrument and chemical techniques. These
use instruments and chemical procedures
to analyze the physical and chemical prop-
erties of drugs, body chemicals and other

Suite 204 Noble Plaza
801 Old York Road

Jenkintown, PA 19046—1685

vascular regulation, digestive system and
drug responses. . '

* Education. Alternatives to the 70 million
animals used in research in the 'United
States alone can play a major role in edu—
cation. The British system of apprentice-
ship in training surgeons can replace the
American system of practicmg surgery on
healthy animals.

The evidence of the importance of human
studies is supported by an analysts of Nobel prizes
awarded in medicine and phySiology. Seventy-
two prizes have been awarded from 1901, the
year the prizes were initiated. through .1985.
Thirty-one percent involved human studies to
some degree, including 14 percent that were
wholly or primarily conducted on humans.

Further, the findings from animal studies must
eventually be verified using humans.

Finally, it should be noted that although some
scientists recognize the importance of alternative
techniques, they are inhibited iii their develop-
ment and use because grant support, funding,
promotions, tenure and salary are. awarded prli—
marily for productivity in live animal researci,
not for innovative alternative techniques.

Hopefully, the scientific community will take

research alternatives more seriously as the gen-
eral public becomes more aware and communi-

g cates to our legislators the savings these methods "

produce in human and animal lives and suffering

as well as the financial benefit to the taxpayer.

Your Opinions/Letters
The Times-Picayune
December 28, 1987

0

American Anti-ViVisection Society

compounds instead of exploiting animals.
Kits of simple materials and chemicals have
replaced rabbits in diagnosing pregnancy.

Clinical studies. Information obtained in
clinical case studies can be used instead of
recreating medical problems in healthy an-
imals in laboratories.

Mechanical models. These are used in car-
crash studies, head injury situations, etc.
Mannequins can simulate appearance and
response of humans or animals. “Resusci-
Dog,” a canine mannequin, teaches veteri-
narian students cardiopulmonary resusci-
tation. Currently being used at the New York
State College of Veterinary Medicine, it has
replaced 100 dogs a year in that institution
and costs only $1,200 as opposed to over
$3,000 per year for animals.

Computer simulations reproduce dissec-
tions, metabolic functions and drug re-
sponses, etc. The University of Texas uses
computers to demonstrate a dog's cardio-

 

PART OF THE SAME FABRIC
by [erry Springer

Considering the fortune P&G makes every year
selling products whose initial development
requires animal testing, well, with company prof-
its and consumer safety so greatly at stake here,
it’s not likely that the animals will be spared.
Indeed, humans have been tortured and killed for

. a lot less in this world, so why should we think

animals will be saved from the curse of
modernization?

Now, Procter 8: Gamble is a corporation with a
legendary sense of responsibility, so it‘s not out
to kill animals for fun. And it is working to find
other means to test its products. But the fact is, it
is still wreaking havoc on God’s four-legged won—
ders, from mice to dogs. and arguments as to how
much pain and torture these animals really have
to suffer are a little bit gratuitous. I mean. it’s not
us who must bear the needles and poison, so
conclusions of, “Well, it's not that had,” come
pretty easy.

 




 

. And it’s tempting to view the handful of animal
rights activists, who parade helplessly with picket
srgns and protests outside the Ivory Towers of
corporate decision-making, as simply a bunch of
bleeding heart rabble-rousers, trying to stop prog-

ress in the name of creatures not smart enough to
be humans.

But avoid that temptation. For these are not
crazres. They’re simple people with a wonderful
conscience, who recognize that, in this world, life
is indivisible . . . that all God’s creatures are part
of the same fabric, each a gift, a miracle. And
where do we get off messing with His work, sim-
ply for our own convenience?

Killing for survival is part of nature‘s natural
chain, but killing for a deodorant, or torturing for
any reason, IS hardly natural. It’s only cruel.

. The experimentation must stop. We're acting
like animals. No, come to think of it, were acting
like humans.

(Ed. Note: TV commentator jerry Springer can be

seen and heard each weeknight at 11 on NEWS 5
WLWT, Cincinnati, Ohio.) ,

 

0

WE WASTE ANIMALS’ LIVES AND
RESEARCH DOLLARS

by Murry Cohen
OST PEOPLE look to the research commu—

. nity for elucidation of the mysteries that
interfere With our ability to conquer substance

abuse, or at least to reduce its devastating effects. f

The public knows that through the National In-
stitutes of Health, the National Institute on Drug
Abuse, the Natlonal Science Foundation and other
health bureaucracies, large sums of money are
allocated to support researchers in their work.

The unsuspecting taxpayer believes that most
ofthrs money IS well spent and that it is appro-
priated to maximize its beneficial effect.

The unsuspecting taxpayer is wrong.

People would be shocked if they knew of the
amount of wasteful, redundant and irrelevant re-
search that is carried out—research paid for with
their tax dollars. This research is supposed to be
evaluated and monitored by Congress, but Con-
gress leaves the monitoring to the same health
bureaucracies that give out the funds.

Research that represents the public’s hopes of

 

« \‘vhich could be more usefully spent elsewhere,

and the public health problem still is not properly
addressed.

Typical of experiments being done at major
medical centers around the country is one con-
cluded last year at Cornell University Medical
School in Manhattan. Researchers there spent 13
to 14 years, and used as much as $250,000 a year
of taxpayers’ money, to look into questions using
animals, while practicing psychiatrists already
knew the answers from people.

Cornell—which is still continuing other types
of substance-abuse research on animals — had

. subjected cats and rats to barbiturates, especially
. pentobarbital, as well as to alcohol, in an attempt

to gain better understanding of human sedative/
tranquilizer abuse, dependence and addiction.

Many hundreds, perhaps thousands, of ani-
mals were killed over the years, usually after hav-
ing been subjected to intense suffering through
untreated withdrawal syndromes consisting of
muscle jerking and spasms, labored breathing,
fighting, cringing, trembling, hallucinations and
convulsions. Tubes were surgically implanted into
cats’ stomachs and sometimes electrodes were
implanted in their brains.

Not a single finding emerged from these exper-
iments that was not known beforehand as a result
of careful monitoring of treatment approaches with
human barbiturate addicts. The researchers
“proved" with cats what we already knew about

* humans. Also, the researchers themselves make

no claim that their research can reasonably be
expected to help human beings.

Finally, a sense of repetitiveness strikes a re—
viewer of such research: Around the country re—
searchers regularly duplicate each otber’s efforts.
Such studies are refunded year after year, while
each year funding of treatment for human drug
addicts, using techniques known to be effective,
remains inadequate.

Clinical research involving human beings is far
more fruitful, and can be combined with treat—
ment. The use of animals for addiction experi—

, ments is a misappropriation of funds;‘the I
information you get out of it is not worth the .

money you put into it.

 

 

conquering drug addiction and other ailments is, .
in fact, often conducted for many reasons other !
than the attempt to solve a serious health prob-
lem. Such studies are attractive to medical re—

search institutions because they are easily funded
by the health bureaucracy.

Much of this expensive research involves ani-
mals and is cruel as well as useless, based on
archaic concepts that have not changed with
changing technology and improved clarity of sci—
entific thought. The chief product of such re-
search is often animal suffering.

Humans also suffer—directly and indirectly— .
due to this research. It drains our tax dollars, -

And results are all too often misleading. At
Cornell when they gave Dilantin to convulsing
cats, it made the cats worse; yet when it is given

to humans going through barbiturate withdrawal, '

it makes them better.

This is not to be construed as an attack on all ‘
animal experimentation. But in treating sub-
stance abuse, the subjects should be human sub-
jects since drug addiction is a distinctly human
disorder.

New drug crazes bring more experiments: Ba-

boons around the country have been adminis- »

tered cocaine and suffered convulsions. to
demonstrate what we already know from human
cocaine addicts. Such research should be rear.-
sessed by US. taxpayers and their legislative rep-—

resentatives and discontinued in favor of

WW

 




expenditure of funds in areas that would result
in real improvement of human health.
(Murry Cohen, MD. is a practicing psychiatrist in
Manhattan.)
Newsday
August 29, 1987

O

‘SAFETY’ TESTING or PRODUCTS
FOR HUMAN USE

(Necessity or morally indefensible false sense
of security?)

If a substance might be inhaled, it is put through
an inhalation toxicity test. Rats or others are

forced to breathe the material and are observed
for signs of toxicity. If not gaseous, the substance
is aerosolized first. As you might imagine, some
substances such as ammonia would cause im-
mediate damage to the delicate tissues of the lungs,
resulting in a great deal of pain. Continued
breathing, an obvious necessity, would aggravate
the situation from which there is no escape.

How many animals are used in these tests in
the United States? There are no accurate figures,
but the numbers are in the millions per year.

From a scientific standpoint, this type of safety
testing largely is irrelevant, unpredictable and po-
tentially dangerous since people would tend to

 

 

react differently from other animals to many sub—
stances. In addition, this type of testing cannot
predict individual or familial tendencies for ad-
verse reactions.

From moral and ethical perspectives, this type
of testing cannot be condoned. The animals are

living, feeling creatures who are capable of suf- ‘

fering just like us. They have lives and interests
independent of ours. There are no morally signif-
icant. differences between them and us that would
make it acceptable to use them in situations to
which we would not consider subjecting our-

selves. Furthermore, there are many nonanimal -

tests that can be done to get an estimation of the
toxicity of a particular product. Using this infor-
mation, it may be determined with a reasonable
degree of assurance that the product is safe. Then,
it can be tried in human volunteers. Bear in mind
that all products must eventually be tested in
people so using human volunteers is not a radical
idea. Keep in mind also that the use of nonhuman
animals can only give a rough approximation as
to what might happen in a human. Moreover. a

 

product may still be manufactured and distrib-
uted even though it caused problems in nonhu-
man animals. For example, during “safety” testing
of the artificial sweetener saccharin, it was found
that rodents developed cancer. Despite this, the
product was marketed, albeit with a label warn-
ing. Therefore, perhaps thousands of animals suf-
fered and lost their lives for a trivial product, and

the data generated were preempted by money and
a warning.

Association of Veterinarians for Animal Rights

Number 15, December 1987.

I, .

“I know of no situation in medicine where a
former pet . . . would better answer a research-
er’s question, better teach a medical student, or
further the advancement of science better than

_g_lternative methods.”

Tom Giduz, M.I).

. t"

Q...A

Q. Iam a registered nurse. Recentlv, I attended
a lecture on breast cancer at which “the speaker
said the latest research shows a decreased risk of
breast cancer in women who use birth control
pills. How can this be? Every study done on lab-

oratory animals shows that estrogen causes can-
cer. 8.8.

A: A short history of birth control pills might
.read something like this: At first, doctors told
women that The PM was perfectly safe. Later,
women found out for themselves (thanks mostly
to the media) that birth control pills were dan-
gerous. Then, some doctors began to downplay
the risks of the birth control pill. claiming it wasn’t
all that dangerous. Now, as you point out, some

doctors have gone so far as to claim that birth

control pills are good for you and will prevent
cancer. l'llS last on of doctors rejects _t.he_s_tud-

-_.__--— -. ﬂ...

‘les 'ou Cite on lgboratoryanimaLs‘with the argu-

.ment that animal studies cannot be transferredto

. .1 bein 5. (Why then do animal studies? Wlfy
not jom anti-Vivrsection societies instead?)

. Dr. Robert Mendelsohn
The People’s Doctor, Vol. 11, No. 12

V

a

 




 

 

 

 

THE DOLLAR BEST SPENT:

Disease Prevention .
or Medical Research?

 

BY STEVEN TIGER

 

If research is essential to the betterment of human health, and the use of animals
is essential to research, then animal research is—according to some people—a
”necessary evil .” Otherwise, if animal research is unnecessary, then it is merely evil.

Let’s pretend that there are no humane or ethical concerns and concentrate sole-
ly on the supposed benefits of animal experimentation to see if this ”necessary evil”

is really necessary.

The nature of research
a. nirnal research comprises two broad categories: basic and

applied. Basic research investigates physiologic mecha-
nisms in the normal and abnormal state, without regard
for any specific clinical utilization; it involves inﬂicting a variety
of physical and psychological stresses on animals to study their
microscopic and gross physiological and behavioral responses.
Applied research tests specific therapeutic techniques prior to
use in humans; it involves studies of the safety and efficacy of
drugs, vaccines, surgical procedures, and other forms of interven-
tion. It includes product development and safety testing. .
Scientists engaged in basic research state openly that clinical
applicability is not their goal, but society condones such research
only because of the hope for eventual clinical applicability. Since
cruelty to animals is against the law, scientists must be granted
special permission to perform acts for which anyone else would
be arrested. Such permission is granted because society believes
that allowing a scientist to experiment on animals is likely to
result in something of practical benefit to human health, whereas
allowing a curious accountant or electrician or airline pilot to
experiment on animals is unlikely to have positive results.

The applicability of animal data

esearchers themselves acknowledge that what occurs in
Rnonhuman animals may have no relation to what occurs
in humans. The growing list of drugs deemed safe after
animal testing and later found to be toxic, carcinogenic, or
mutagenic in humans is just one example of the inherent
unreliability of animal studies. Yet researchers maintain that
while the animal model is flawed, it is the best model available.
What the researchers do not say is that experimenting on
animals violates a cardinal rule of proper scientific technique:
the observer should not intrude upon the test subject. Naturalists
who observe animals in the wild are painstakingly careful not
to intrude on their subjects’ normal life patterns. The extreme
invasiveness and artificiality of the laboratory environment-in
which animals are regarded as mere tools—represents such gross
intrusion upon the subjects’ lives that the data obtained are not
even reliably applicable to that species, much less to humans.
That is why every animal research paper published includes a
stock disclaimer: ”Results in animals do not necessarily apply
to humans.” .
Stress alters a patient's response to illness and injury, and that

38 The ANIMALS’ AGENDA

applies to everything from warts to cancer. Therefore, apart from
the physiologic differences from humans, the laboratory environ—
ment is so stressful that the animal can never serve as a model
for any human experience.

The real goal

ow let's look at what should be the goal of our medical
N care system: to achieve the greatest health benefit for the

greatest number of people. Any other goal suggests that
one person or one group ‘of people is more important than some
other person or group. If we cannot judge one person or group
more important than another, all we can do is try to help the
greatest number.

Medicine is, inevitably, a game of numbers. We’re allowed to
use drugs that occasionally kill people, as long as they help more
people than they kill. We use screening tests that miss some pa-
tients, as long as they identify more patients than they miss.
We care about those who are lost, but we also care about the
greater number saved.

The goal of helping the greatest number must be the basis for
any restructured medical care system. By reducing the number
of avoidable medical problems, we would dramatically improve
the nation’s health, while cutting costs and providing better care
for those who really need medical services.

For example, just three changeé in lifestyle—reductions in
cigarette use and alcohol consumption, and a better diet—would
significantly reduce the incidence of all of the three leading
medical killers: heart disease, cancer, and diabetes.

So a sensible system would be based on prevention, not
research to find cures. It would teach people to take responsibili-
ty for their own well-being—to stop treating their irreplaceable
bodies in a way equivalent to driving the family car in a demoli-
tion derby and then expecting miraculous repairs.

Ironically, the medical profession, oriented around pathology,
cannot take the lead in establishing a sensible health-oriented
system. Depending on physicians to direct national health policy
on the basis of their clinical skills is like depending on garage
mechanics to direct national transportation policy on the basis
of their automotive-repair training (but at least mechanics are
not addicted to using ever-costlier tools when a simple wrench
will do the job).

APRIL 1988

 




 

 

'I'he ,
determinants
of health

our factors determine
Fone's state of health.

In order of impor-
tance, they are: lifestyle, en-
vironment, genetic in-
heritance or familial
predisposition, and
medical treatment. The US.
Centers for Disease Control
has estimated the relative
importance of these factors
in the 10 leading causes of
death in this country as
follows: behavior and life-
style, 51 percent; physical
environment, 20 percent;
heredity, 19 percent; and
medical services, 10 per-
cent. There are individual
cases in which this order of
importance is altered, but
the ranking is accurate for
the vast majority of the
population. For example,
heart disease (still the
number one killer in the
US.) definitely shows a
familial pattern. Other fac-
tors being equal, Mr. A,
whose parents both died
young from heart disease,
is at greater risk for
developing heart disease
than Mr. B, whose parents
are both still active and
healthy in their 803. How-
' ever, if Mr. A is a slim,
athletic, vegetarian non—
smoker, and Mr. B is an
obese, sedentary, meat—
eating smoker, then it is Mr.
B who is at higher risk—-
despite his more favorable
family history. Then, when
Mr. B does develop heart
disease, medical therapy
will not be able to control
his condition unless he
changes his lifestyle. In fact,
a favorable change in life-
style might (depending on
the nature and severity of
the disease) make medical
or surgical intervention
unnecessary.

Since treatment is the
least important of the four
factors that determine
health, it is not surprising
to learn how small a role
medicine has played in the
improvement of health over
the past century. The
British physician T.

APRIL 1988

 

Allow THAT Wave ATTEHPFF37
AN AMM AL To Mum HEART
TRANépAAMR...

a g
a... r o .

/////, ﬂ _/
"-AND saccEésmu}? IMPLANTED
A HEMAMCAL HEART...

WAT Na») MEDICAL,-
MILEestome skoua)
we ATTEMPT Now?

How ABOLG' AM
(“3%me MMtoIUAL
W wee PM»?

/"

 

—Kalhryn leieux

The ANIMA LS’ AGENDA

McKeown ‘1.)has analyzed
the.contribution of medical
science to the increase in
lifespan in Britain, and con—
cludes that it was minimal;
most of the increase was
due to improvements in
nutrition and public sanita-
tion. Similar studies in the
US, conducted by scholars
John and Sonia McKinlay
2.) show comparable
results—almost all of the in-
crease in lifespan since the
year 1900 is due to reduc-
tions in infectious disease
mortality, with medical in-
tervention accounting for
only about three percent of
that reduction.

The
contradiction

very dollar society in-
Evests in animal

research is a dollar
unavailable for investment
in prevention. And each
dollar spent on treatment is
a dollar that cannot be
spent on fostering ad-
justments in lifestyle and
environment. Since the
goal of our medical system
should be to produce the
greatest health benefit for
the greatest number of peo-
ple, animal research repre-
sents a misdirection of
resources. For every person
who might be helped by
research, we lose some
number of people whose
lives were just as important
and who could have been
saved had we invested in—
stead in prevention. We
don’t see those people—the
mews media prefers more
ksensational stories of
’medical miracles" and in-
dividuals dying of incurable
diseases, not the greater
number dying of easily
preventable causes illnesses
and accidents.

80, the question is not
”dogs or babies,” but
whether we should support
research that might save
one life or put the same
resources into preventive
efforts that would save
many.

Continued on next page

39

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Continued from previous page

Can't we eliminate frivolous experimentation, but keep do-
ing serious research that may help those who get sick or injured
despite a redirection of resources into prevention? Dollar for
dollar, we can still help more people through prevention than
through research. It’s like splitting one’s savings between two
bank accounts: a ”preventive" account offering 8 percent interest,
and a ”research" account offering 0.00002 percent interest. No
matter how the principal is divided, the return is smaller than
it would be with a total investment in the "preventive" account.
And, of course, we are talking not about dollars earned but
human lives saved.

Furthermore, supporting animal research focuses society's at-
tention (apart from its resources) in the wrong direction; it im-
plies that the best way to deal with disease is through research,
and that people are helpless to save themselves. That actually
discourages people from taking responsibility for their own
well-being.

Doesn't prevention require research?

(doctors who trace patterns of disease prevalence and in-
cidence) who discovered the relationships between
cigarette smoking and lung disease, between improper diet and
cancer, between lack of exercise and heart disease, between en-
vironmental toxicity and death from poisoning. Animal models
followed, duplicating what was already obvious.
‘ Researchers often men- ‘
tion toxicity testing as an ex-

Yes, epidemiologic research. It was the epidemiologists

follow—up studies in laboratory animals are impossible for many
reasons (longevity, differences in immune function, and the con-
founding effects of stress on the immune system). Animals are
still used for testing batches of som’e vaccines, but that process
is being replaced by more reliable in vitro methods.

Hasn’t animal research

accomplished anything?

ome members of the anti-vivisection movement deny that
S anything useful has ever come out of animal research.

Others acknowledge that there have been certain beneficial
results, though fewer than most people would suspect. But
rather than debate about the past, we should be planning sen-
sibly for the future. Starting now, how can resources be invested
so as to produce the greatest health benefit for the greatest
number of people? Animal research is not the answer.

In contrast to biomedical research using animals, clinical
research on human patients is tremendously valuable. Such
research goes on constantly, and is the source of most clinically
useful discoveries. Animal models are often created simply to
duplicate the observed results of clinical research.

When researchers point to a list of accomplishments that have
come out of animalexperimentation, it is like announcing‘that
an investment is good because it has produced a profit of $1,000.
But to evaluate that profit, some perspective is needed: going
from $2,000 to $3,000 in a year is good; going from $1,000,000

to $1,001,000 in a century is
pathetic—and that is the

 

ample of ”preventive"
animal experimentation.
The facts are that: 1) the
results of animal tests are
hit-or-miss, sometimes
resembling the results in
humans and sometimes
not; 2) in vitro methods
already exist to take the
place of much testing on
live animals; and 3) new
chemicals should not be
mass-produced when we
cannot even deal with the

People have been led to believe that
hiring researchers to destroy
animals in the laboratory is the best
way to improve human health.

type of "profit” that comes
out of animal research.

he slogan of the Salk

I Research Institute—
”Basic Research, The

Key to Health”— reveals the
fundamental flaw of the
research orientation. It im-
plies that good health is an
artificial state that must be
created in the laboratory,
that the natural state is ill-
ness, and that with a few

 

environmental damage
caused by those already in

use.
Testing drugs on animals is also a hit-or-miss process.

Moreover, the great majority of new drugs are just copies of
already existing drugs. New drugs are marketed not because
there is a clinical need for them, but because they can be sold
at enormous profit by the pharmaceutical manufacturers—which
(like their parent companies, the giant chemical corporations)
think nothing of dumping drugs on Third World markets that
are too toxic and/or useless to sell in the US.

As for vaccines, few areas of medicine are so misunderstood.
Vaccines played little role in reducing mortality from disease in
the US, since the death rates from the diseases they were in-
tended to prevent were already declining prior to the introduc-
tion of the various vaccines in current use. However, they did
reduce the incidence of certain diseases. But while we want to
prevent disease, we don’t want to trade one disease now for a
~ more serious one later on. And that is the crux of the matter.
No one has the slightest idea of the long-term clinical conse-
quences of mass vaccination in infancy. What it might be doing
to the immune system years later is impossible to determine,
since there is no unvaccinated group that is being followed for
a lifetime to compare with the vaccinated population. Long-term

The ANIMA LS' AGENDA

the errors
' on that kind of thinking has consistently placed the US, which

megabucks for research,

scientists can correct
of God, nature, and evolution. Reliance
has the largest research establishment in the world, at or near
the bottom of the list of the world's industrialized nations in
terms of health. ' , (

Science is not the answer to ev'rything. Hiring chemists to
ignite ﬂammable fluids in the lab ratory would be a silly way
for a city to combat a wave of arson. Yet, while the vast majority
of problems treated by doctors can be traced directly to such fac-
tors as smoking, drinking, improper diet, drug abuse, lack of
exercise, and gross carelessness leading to accidents, people have
been led to believe that hiring researchers to destroy animals
in the laboratory is the best way to improve human healthJﬂ

 

Steven Tiger is a Certified Physician’s Assistant who now works as a
medical writer and lecturer in medical physiology.

FOOTNOTES:

1 T McKeown, RC. Record, R.D. Turner: An Interpretation of the Decline in Mortality
in England and Wales During the Twentieth Century. Population Studies 1975; 29:391.
2 I. B. McKinlay, S.M. McKinley: The Questionable Contribution of Medical Measures
to the Decline of Mortality in the United States in the Twentieth Century. Health and
Society Summer 1977; 405—428.

APRIL 1988

 




THE ANIMALS' AGENDA - April 1988

 

 

Echoes of a Lab Animal

I bIeed like you

I cry inside

I was born with a wiII
to Iive not die.

Who are you to play God with my fate?
To shock my feet with electric grates.

I only want to breathe and be tree

But prison you made my destiny.

To make your Ph.D. come true
You’II insert a wire, maybe two.
A probe here, a shock there

You watch me with no despair.

You hear my yeIls
You hear my cries
UnIIinching you write
You theorize.

I cannot buiId with hammer or nail
But nor can I set war bombs a saiI.
I can however teeI the pain

That you iniect through my veins.

The conclusions you draw
Are they worth my lite?

o

‘1-

I’SUb'ect iven 220 vo'ts’ . 1:; . . i. _, .' '4‘ . -_ ‘_ t l e. I. .3. n
I g ' a an . 1’

in his throat we place a knife. , ‘ rigs“?
Subject convuIsing, crying the same. ' 1""Kih77'i-7i"

We conclude this causes pain." .. 1- . _

q

3"
4
' -

Oh, someone, pIeose, someone, hear my cry.
If this is Iite I rather die.

With each unthinking dain pIan

Another is tortured by the hands of man.

—an Capo

i2
7'3
E
'I
§
7:.
E
u
3
'3':
Q
E
I

gitts Coalition, Inc.

v

 

 

 




What wags its all and barks ‘almost like a dog’?

x’yzigffﬂ‘

 

 

,r/ _. x, x
1/1, -/

X%?i’/r/“/
': //

I

.I/ . ;, ' :Z" ,’

/-C:’z./ -
J ”.-
I

l

'> 4’, x/-

:

1

. I
”My" . ,(I »
xii/,2?
' '. i J,’
u .//‘ j, I'

7/. i’}%y/’,§% ' '
. '/' « x; x'
A} W5'/I:;W/ .
, /y;{ ’j/

/' r ,
’ '2”.-

4‘7"

”(fl/W

4/7: /

,é .. “9/” -_ " Beca'ii’ée’of“
Milo's

:2 s a; fondness for '

chocolate

chip cookies,
Deborah
La Tempa has =
put him on a
diet. He now
receives a
daily ration of
1% cups of
low-protein
horse food.

 

 

 

Charles Krejcsi/The Arizona Republic

 

 




 

igs are dirty,
smelly and
stupid, right?
Wrong. Just
ask the

La Tempe
family, with
whom Milo,
the Chinese
potbellled
pig, resides.

‘\
i

"-3.-
. ‘C
a

 

 

 

t

:5
$$ \\‘.

\\
‘k .5.

'.‘~

: “x
h§...tu

 

\
\Qx ‘
\ ". ..

s1

.252-
./

\‘_.
X
‘ \

<\
K 2_\
. \
‘

 

 

 

By Jean Novotny
The Arizona Republic

eborah La Tempa wanted a saddle for
Christmas.
Her husband, Vic, said he’d rather
get her something more personal.

“And this is what 1 got,” said La Tempa
with delight as she pointed to Milo, her pet pig.
Milo is believed to be the first of his breed -—
Chinese potbellied —— to live in Arizona and
one of only a few dozen in the United States.

For Christmas Deborah La Tempa also got
a fur coat, a gift that somehow didn’t cause
quite the stir in the La Tempa household that
the pig has.

Milo has taken over the kids’ playhouse,
rooted up the flowers around the back yard
putting green and established a wallow by the
patio. Nevertheless, he has nuzzled his way
into the hearts of the La Tempa family, which
also includes Bianca, 3, and Sebastian, 15
months.

“He has a real neat personality, and it grows
on you,” La Tempa said. “He’s very sweet-
tempered.

“He’s also quite friendly. I’ll be sitting on
the couch, and he’ll push me with his nose to
let me know he wants to be petted. Then he’ll
roll over on his back so I’ll scratch his stomach
——- he loves to have his stomach scratched.

“And when I’m on the telephone, he chews
on my toes so I’ll pay attention to him. He’s a
lot like a dog,” she said of Milo, who even
wags his tail.

In the three months he has lived with the
La Tempas in north Scottsdale, Milo has
disproved all notions about pigs being dirty,
smelly and stupid. But he clearly has proved
the theory that pigs are hedonistic. »

He Spends most of his days hanging around
the house, snoozing on the carpet in the
hallway or snuggling with a sheepskin in the ’
playhouse on the patio. His only exercise is his '
morning run in the pasture with the family’s ”
two chows, Aga and Miaggi. ‘.

“When I go out to feed the horses, they all 1
follow me,”_ La Tempa said. “He’s fast. He can ,
outrun the dogs in short bursts. I don’t know if
he could do it on the long haul, though.

“And he has learned to bark like the dogs." ..
He sounds almost like a dog. He just barks
when he runs. . . . I don’t know if Milo thinks ’
he’s a pig or if he thinks he’s a dog.” -

La Tempa said the dogs tried to intimidate
Milo at first but he ignored them. Finally, they
accepted him, and all three now ride
contentedly in the back of La Tempa’s Jeep
Wagoneer when she runs errands. '

The dogs have become very protective of :
Milo, and they even tail La Tempa whenever

—- See Milo, page B6

8861 ‘VI‘ WHEN - Xtueoqd ‘ DITEUldEiH ‘VNOZIHV

 




Sweet-tempered Milo
is ideal ‘pet of the ’905’

4-: Continued from . page 85

she carries Milo. Milo, afraid that he
will be dropped, lets out a
high-pitched squeal with a acibel
level ”reputed to be on par with that of
the Concorde at takeoff.

“He is almost always with the
dogs,” La Tempa said. “He even
sleeps with them. Some mornings I’ll
find them all in a big pile on the
ﬂoor.”

Milo is not as cozy with the horses,
and .LaTempa’s stallion, Ego’s Best
Shot,'likes to chase him. Milo is smart

enough to know it’s best to avoid him.
' “He seems to be more intelligent
than the dogs,” said Vic LaTetnpa,
who grew up in New York City .and
admits he is not the animal lover his
wife‘is.

“He has even figured out how to
slide Open the screen door. They
haven’t ﬁgured out how to do that.

“He‘s cleaner than the dogs, much
nicernthan a cat and very gentle with
the .children. He’s well-mannered,
too‘:”«

ln,mid-December, Vic La Tempa,
who ‘owns two Amco Transmission
shops in Mesa. heard Kayla Mull, a
Norco, Calif, breeder of Chinese
potbellied pigs, on a radio talk show.

“I knew it would be the ideal gift
for Deborah,” Vic La Tempa said. “I
know my wife, and 1 know what she
likes.”

And what she likes is animals, any
kind of animals. She grew up in
Kansas and had all kinds of pets,
including a timber wolf, coyote,
raccoon and opossum. She then had a
roommate who owned a boa constric—
tor and later worked for a wild-animal
trainer in Santa Barbara, Calif.

Vic La Tempa called Mull and
arranged to buy a piglet. But 'no
airline would allow the animal to
travel in the passenger compartment,
and the La Tempas did not want the
piglet to ride with the cargo. So they
chartered a plane and flew to
Riverside, Calif, where they met
Mull.

She brought along four pigs for
them to look at, and they chose Milo,
who was then 8 weeks old —— but
housebroken —- and weighed 20
pounds. The cost was 51,500.

La Tempa said her guess is that
Milo, now 5 months, weighs about 60
pounds. At least he’s heavier than the
SO-pound bags of feed that she lifts
regularly, she said.

Because of Milo’s fondness for
chocolate chip cookies -—— “he’ll do
anything for one” — and a propensity
for eating the dogs‘ food, she has put

him on a diet, limiting him to 1%
cups of low-protein horse food a day.
She also started feeding the dogs
indoors so he can’t get at their food.

Milo once broke into the laundry
room and consumed 4 pounds of dog
biscuits in about 10 minutes.

“He would eat himself to death if
he could, orat least he would try very
hard,” La Tempa said. “I haven’t
found anything he won’t eat. He’s

, better than a diSposal.”

Even so, Milo will never grow as

large as the meat-type hogs, which

weigh from 300 to ‘500 pounds when
full-grown. Chinese potbellied pigs,
characterized by low-slung bellies and
accordionlike jowls, are short, mea-
suring only 18 inches tall at the ..
shoulder when full-grown. An adult
Chinese potbellied pig usually weighs
from 75 to 125 pounds.

Most pigs are marketed at less than
a year old, but Mull grooms the
Chinese potbellied for a long life.
She’s shooting for 16 years, she said.

“These are not the kind ofpigs you
have for dinner — these are the kind
of pigs you have to dinner,” said
Mull, who imported them from
Canada with the hope of making them
the pet of the 1990s.

“They’re incredibly rare and un-
usual, and it’s amazing -—— more
people have seen elephants up close
than have seen pigs up close.”

Mull. whose business, Creatures of
Comfort, was featured in People
magazine last month, recently shipped
a Chinese potbellied pig named Tingo
Maria to best-selling novelist Larry ;
McMurtry and is teaching “proper '
manners” to another that has been
earmarked for a Scottsdale attorney.

“It’s really risky when you’re
choosing a home for them,” she said.
“I have to make sure the people are
open-minded enough so that, when
something does go wrong, they can
figure out what to do."

She has bred 22 of the “young,
upwardly mobile piglets” since im-
porting three pigs in 1985 and said she
has learned much in the process,
especially when it comes to a piggish
approach to life.

"If there’s a way to enjoy them-
selves, they will ﬁnd it,” she said. “If
there is a softer pillow, if there is a
better morsel of food.

“They have an incredible capacity
for enjoying the moment. They know
how to let it be. They leave the past in
the past —— they don’t let it bother
them. They have no regrets, no
remorse.”

 




Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, GA 30345

March 22, 1988

President Ronald Reagan
The White House
washington, DC 20500

Dear Mr. President:

I recently wrote you re the whale killing still being
carried on by Japan in the name of "research.”

Again, this letter is to urge you to invoke the Pelly
Amendment under which you have the discretion to embargo
any or all fishery products of Japan.A

Why is one country being allowed to carry on the killing
when most civilized countries have stopped this atrocity?

YOu can force Japan to halt its cheating on the IWC mora-
torium, and I sincerely hope you will do so.

It's bad enough that drift nets are being used so heavily
in our seas, and they are killing tens of thousands of
sea animals yearly. I don't suppose we will ever know
just how many are being killed and for what - man's greed!

Nhn.has indeed so fouledthe earth and the waters of the
world, I wonder if we will ever recuperate. But we can
stop this killing of whales by Japan, and I urge you to
do so.  

Sincerely,

(Mrs.) Constance F. Yarbrough
cc: Honorable Sam Nunn, Honorable wyche Fowler, Honor-
able Pat Swindall

 




 

r .-

Sizing up elephants
is no small effort

LEPHANTS ARE outstanding in a number of
ways:

I Elephants are the largest land animals and
have the largest brains. A female Asian elephant
is about 71/2 feet tall at the shoulders and weighs

.5,000 to 10,000 pounds; a male is about 9 feet tall
and weighs 7,000 to 12,000 pounds. A female
African elephant is about 91/; feet tall and 8,000 to
10,000 pounds; the male is around 11 feet tall and
weighs 12,000 to 14,000 pounds.

I Female elephants are called cows, males are
bulls, and young elephants are calves. At birth, a
calf is 3 feet tall and about 200 pounds.

I Asian elephants may live as long as 70 to 80
years; African elephants may live 50 to 60 years.

I Elephants usually travel at about 4 to 5 miles
an hour, but they can run as fast as 24 miles an
hour for short distances. ..

I Elephants are sure-footed. They walk on
their toes, which are cushioned by thick pads.

I An elephant’s trunk has 40,000 muscles and
tendons, and it is very strong and ﬂexible. An
elephant can pick up a single blade of grass with
the “finger” on the end of the trunk. The trunk
amplifies elephants’ sounds: screams, trumpets,
grunts, rumbles and even purring. .

I Elephants flap their large ears to help keep
cool. They love water, and will sometimes cover
themselves completely in mud.

I Elephants go through as many as six sets of
teeth in a lifetime because of the coarse food they
eat. In one year, an average elephant in a zoo will

eat 100,000 pounds of hay, 12,000 pounds of alfalfa
hay, 1,500 gallons of grain, 3,000 fruits and
vegetables, 2,000 potatoes and 1,600 loaves of
bread. In a year, an elephant drinks 15,500 gallons
of water.

I The first elephant was a two-foot-high hippo-
like animal named Moeritllerium. It lived in
Egypt about 45 million years ago and had no
trunk. The closest relative to today’s elephants
were the woolly mammoths, which died out about
10,000 years ago.

-— Patricia Corrtgan

Source: ZOOBOOKS, a magazine for all ages from
Wildlife Education Ltd, .930 West Washington
Street, San Diego, Calif. 92103. Ten issues, each on
a different animal, are published annually. A
subscription is 31 4.95.

“,3... . . ..w.:

_ , .s, __.... vkaarrM~M~ ~m- ’ "

V , 0, v..." .V.._.Mim-

1....

Elephants walk on their toes, which are
cushioned by thick pads.

 

 

Jenny Balke, a reproducti

_ tent to the St. Louis 200.

st~Dispatch
ve research consrv":

(

 




ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH - March 15, 1988

Artificial insemination
may be the only hope
for Asian pachyderms

By Patricia Corrigan
Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

LL DAY LONG, while your mind is on other
things, scientists at the St. Louis Zoo and

throughout the country are working to discover a
successful method of artificial insemination of Asian
elephants so the world won’t have to do without the
mighty beasts.

Asian elephants are the smaller of the two species of
elephants living today. Once, there were hundreds of
species, but only Asian and African elephants have
escaped extinction. Asian elephants have smaller ears
than African elephants, and they have high foreheads
with two prominent bumps. Their backs arch in the
middle, and only males usually have tusks.

Asian elephants are an endangered species. Fewer
than 25,000 are left in the wild. In the United States,
about 130 Asian elephants live in zoos, a small number
perform in circuses, and a few are privately owned.

Since 1880, only 52 Asian elephants have been born in
North American zoos. Although all of those births were
the result of natural breeding, natural breeding is not an
option for most zoos.

“There are few zoos capable of maintaining a bull
elephant. They are large and difficult to manage, and
they can be unruly at times,” said Bruce Read, curator
of large mammals at the St. Louis Zoo. “You need
heavily reinforced facilities with remote-controlled
doors operated by a hydraulic system. Several years
ago, we did have an African bull elephant (he died in
1972), but as a matter of safety for the people who work
around the animals, we chose not to risk housing
another bull.”

In 1976, the London Zoo made the first attempt to
artificially inseminate an elephant, and the Washington
. Park Zoo in Portland, Ore., has been doing research
since 1974. Yet to date, no births have resulted from
artificial insemination techniques.

In artificial insemination, sperm — or semen — is
collected from a male animal. Humans put the sperm
into the reproductive tract of a female and hope that
pregnancy results.

Three scientists at the St. Louis Zoo sat down together
recently to discuss elephant breeding programs in place
locally and across the country. We met with Jenny
Balke, a reproductive research consultant; Bill Boever,
senior staff veterinarian and director of research; and
Read. They reported that the Zoo’s most recent attempt
at artificial insemination occurred in January, with an
elephant named Carolyn. ‘

“It will take five to six months after the artificial
insemination procedure to tell if Carolyn is pregnant.
You have to wait two full estrous cycles to be sure,

 

. i

which is not really a long time, consrdering that
elephants have a 22-month gestation,” Read said.

V The Zoo’s researchers are trying to answer three
major questions: What is the appropriate time to
inseminate female elephants? Where should the sperm
be deposited —- in the urogenital canal, the vagina or the
uterus? How should elephant semen be collected,

anal zed and preserved? _ _
Thye Zoo’s goal, of course, is to achieve the birth of an

elephant. Five female Asian elephants live at the Zoo,
and three of them —— Carolyn, Donna and Pearl —— are
involved in the research. .

The St. Louis Zoo began inseminating elephants in
1985, when it joined forces with the Dickerson Park Zoo
in Springfield, Mo, which has a bull elephant. Sperm is
collected from the bull elephant and shipped to St. Louis
for insemination.

The project is financed in part by a two-year
conservation grant of $25,000 from the Institute of
Museum Services, a federal agency. Another research
project is the Species Survival Plan, a national program
under the auspices of the American Association of.
Zoological Parks and Aquariums. The association IS a
professional organization that coordinates conservation
efforts on behalf of many endangered specres among
zoological institutions in North America.

“The zoos are cooperating in an attempt to save a
number of endangered species,” Boever said. “T he ‘
Species Survival Plan for Asian Elephants propagation
committee includes a species coordinator and nine
members. Dale T uttle of the Dickerson Park Zoo is the
coordinator, and I am a member of the committee.”

For a female elephant to get pregnant, sperm
must be introduced during estrus, the fertile period of
her estrous cycle. But the fertile period in elephants 15.
almost impossible for observers to determine. “There is
no sign from the animal,” Boever said. So the Zoo s
scientists are looking for hormonal and microscopic
ways to determine estrus. .

' Since 1975, Read said, the Zoo has been taking blood
and urine samples from the elephants to study the
hormonal changes of the estrous cycle. Researchers

also study samples of cells from the urogenital canal.

“We looked at 43 different blood parameters before
we found one that is a reliable indicator of estrus,” Read
said. “The consensus seems to be that elephants cycle
about three times a year. Now we need to learn to detect
when; we need to be able to predict the cycle and figure
out the optimum time for insemination.

“Donn Gibson. the elephant trainer, and the crew at
the Elephant House here have been very helpful getting
the animals to stand for the (insemination) procedure
and the weekly blood tests for the hormonal data.”
(Gibson is celebrating his 25th anniversary with the
Zoo.) ‘

Another question researchers must answer is exactly
where to place the sperm in the female. The urogenital
canal —— which is nearly a meter (about 3 feet) long -—
leads from an outside opening to the vagina, which is
connected by the cervix to the uterus. Two uterine horns
lead from the uterus to sites very near each ovary.
When an egg leaves the ovary at ovulation, it travels
down the uterine horn. If the egg is fertilized by a
spermatozoon, it implants itself into the wall of the
uterus, where the calf develops.

In natural breeding, sperm would be deposited in the
urogenital canal. But for artificial insemination to work,
the sperm may have to be deposited in the vagina or
even in the uterus, researchers say. In the St. Louis

project, the sperm is put into the vagina.

Researchers discovered that the Zoo’s elephants

: have a hymenal membrane that partly blocks the .
‘ opening from the urogenital canal into the vagina. “We

wondered if they had developed properly, if this is
normal," Balke said. “We were afraid that the intact
membranes might be keeping the elephants from

getting pregnant.”

 




Then two years ago, Balke participated in dissection
of some female elephants in Africa to study the anatomy
of the reproductive tract. “We found that with African
elephants in the wild, a young female and four pregnant
elephants did have intact hymenal membranes, so
natural breeding doesn’t rupture that,” Balke said. “In
mature elephants with placental scars (elephants that
gardhgiven birth), the area was ripped open during the

1 .” '

Boever called Balke a pioneer in anatOmical studies
of the reproductive tract of female elephants, and he
said she had worked out a way to place the semen into
the elephant’s vagina. Read added that she also had
designed a “fiberoptoscope” — a microscope with fiber
optics that allows researchers to see deep inside the
urogenital canal during artificial insemination.

“It’s a useful technique,” Boever said. “It allows you to
go into the vaginal canal and potentially into the cervix
using the flexible scope.”

Balke broke in, “Yes, but even with the

fiberoptoscope, we’re still going
lind — we’re just poking around
and hoping for the best.”
, Fewer than a third of US. zoos
‘ have male elephants, and some of
those animals are the wrong age for
breeding. Balke noted that ironical-
ly, of the 23 Asian elephants that
have been born in North American
zoos since 1980, 17 are male and
only six are female. “That’s one of
the biggest issues with captive
breeding —- and it may be a prob-
lem with artificial insemination, too
- the disproportionate number of
'males. If we continue to produce a
lot of males, what will we do with
them?” , ~
The elephants’ size also puts pres-
sure on zoos to find ways to

artificial insemination. “Simple ma-
nipulation of an elephant is a major
l issue,” Boever said. “With other spe-
cies, if we knew of a place that had
a male and we had a female, they
would ship the male to our female
for breeding. There is a lot of move-
ment with other species, but ele-
phants are difficult to move. And
you also have to have the right facil-

; ities for breeding to take place.”

, Nodding in agreement, Read add-
ed: “That’s why if an artificial in-

; semination technique for elephants
‘were developed, it would be very
,valuable. We’re going to continue
‘ our research.

“The St. Louis 200 is committed to
the conservation of Asian elephants
and, along with other zoos in North
America and internationally, we
will continue to try to understand
the reproduction of the species and
to work out a method of artificial
insemination.”

 

 

 

'mewmﬁﬁv 4' . m4~*:<\~e ‘

9
a
r
v

 

Two Asian elephants, members of an endangered species,

Photo courtesty of St. Louis 23;:

atthe St. Louis 200.

 




HOUSTON POST

March 17, 1988

Animal trapper's only catch of ~7-day: grie

 

 

 

isost photo by lra Strickstein

George Creagor With trap used to catch stray cats in condominium area.

Dead feline prompts hate calls

By Jane A. Grandolfo

 

OF THE HOUSTON POST

 

The only thing George Creagor
caught Wednesday was a lot of
grief.

Creagor, owner of an animal
trapping business, said that by 8
am. Wednesday he’d received 23
phone calls from people who
threatened to kill him, burn his
house and smash the windows of
his car.

“i had one man call twice and
say he had a hit out on me,”
Creagor said.

it was not a good day.

And it’s all because of a gray
tabby cat named Buster.

Buster was one of 26‘ cats
nabbed ‘in a kitty roundup earlier
this month after disgruntled River
Oaks Gardens condominium
owners wanted the stray felines
off their cars and out of their gar-
bage. Cats left muddy paWprints
on cars, urinated on tires and

scratched expensive paint jobs,
residents said.

After about a year of trying to
shoo the cats away, they hired
Creagor’s company, Quality Var-
mint Control, to clean up the
complex at 1601 S. Shepherd. On

March 3 and 4, Creagor went to
the complex, lured 26 stray cats
into baited cages and dropped
them off at the Houston Animal
Control Center.

On Tuesday, Buster’s owner,
Cindy Clifford, found out her pet
may have been among the 26
cats, all of which were killed after
nobody claimed them from the
city pound.

“l was frantic,” she said.

When Clifford found out that
the cats were killed since none
had tags, collars or anyone to

Please see DEAD/page 21 A

 

 




Dead cat prompts
hate calls to trapper—

Continued from page 1 A

claim them within the required
three- to six—day period, she was
heartbroken.

Soon after the tears started, so
did her neighbor’s sympathy.
Then came the media attention.
And then the phone calls to Crea-
gor.

“I’m just as upset as she is that
she doesn’t have a cat anymore,”
said Creagor, a state licensed ani-
mal trapper. “But what people
don’t realize is that if any of these
animals had a registration tag or
rabies tag I could have found out
who their owner was and called
them, which is what l always do.”

Clifford complains that Buster
was well-fed and obviously some-
one’s pet. The reason he didn’t
wear tags is because he refused to
keep a cat collar on, she said.

Houston Animal Control Direc-
tor Dr. Robert Armstrong said
Creagor did nothing illegal, and it
was Buster’s owner who broke
the law.

“I understand how the woman
feels, but the cat wasn’t vaccinat-
ed or licensed and allowing it to
run at large is a misdemeanor
with a fine up to $200," Arm-
strong said. “Mr. Creagor was not
only doing something legal, bUt
he went one step further and took
the courtesy of posting signs a
week ahead of time telling people
what he would be doing.”

Joe LaPalomento, a spokes-
man‘for the Houston Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals, said he has no quarrel with
the job Creagor did.

“They were stray animals tak—
en to an approved animal holding
facility,” he said. “And one ques-
tion you have to ask is, why were
these cats outside when there is a
leash law in the city?”

But once the brouhaha over

Buster started, so did Creagor’s
hate calls.

“I’ve never had this big of a
problem before,” he said. “I’m
not too bothered by it except that
I don’t think people understand
the whole story.”

Creagor said he normally traps
raccoons, opossum and squirrels
in a l7-county area and then sets
them free in wildlife refuges.
Most days, he starts work about 4
am, and each month he traps
about 60 raccoons, lOopossums
and some coyotes and squirrels.

“The coyotes are taken to a”
wildlife area near Plantersville,
raccoons go to a 30,000-acre
wildlife refuge near College Sta-
tion and the squirrels go to Camp
Strake near Conroe,” Creagor
said.

He rarely traps domestic ani-
mals, but if he does it’s only with
permission from property own-
ers, he said.

His 5-year-old business, based
in Spring, was a natural out-
growth of his childhood love for
animals, he said.

“I was born and raised in the
country and I had every kind of
animal you could think of. I had a

zoo in the backyard,” Creagor, I

said. “I even raised some on a
bottle.”

He started his animal control
business when the oil industry
got soft and his services as an
electrical engineer weren’t in de-
mand, he said. For the first sever-

\al years in business, he was the

only licensed animal trapper in
Harris County, he said.

Suddenly, he’s the most con-
troversial.

“I’m not overly concerned,
though,” Creagor said. “I’m con-
vinced that once people under-

stand what I do and have all the -

facts in front of them, they’ll be
for me instead of against me."

 

 

LUFKIN (AP) —— Pearl gets
lost every once in a while, but she
always meets the nicest people.

The shaggy little dog, who
looks like the movie star Benji,
wandered off from her home near
the Oklahoma border Friday and
dropped in for a late lunch with
Tom and Doris Tatum of Lufkin
Sunday afternoon.

“She was just curled up beside
the road when we drove up from
running errands,” said Doris Ta-
tum. “We thought she had been
run over. When we called to her,
she just stretched and yawned
and came right up to us. She’s a
friendly little thing.”

Tatum said she got a shock
when she looked at Pearl’s tag.
which identified her owner as
Amy Farris of DeKalb, about 200
miles north of Lufkin, near Texar-

 

APpHSEa
Doris Tatum holds Pearl outside Tatum's Lufkin home.

I Dog finds friendly folk
‘ - 200 miles from home

kana.

“It never occurred to us she
was so well—traveled. We just
wonder how in the world she go:
down here. I wish she could talk.
She could really tell a story.

“We called the owners. and
they were tickled to death. We
were trying to figure out a way to
ship her home, but they said, ‘No.
we’ll fly down.’ ”

The Farrises flew into Lufkin to
reclaim their dog Monday.

Amy’s parents, Tim and Geri
Farris, said the family found Pearl
about five years ago, lost at a
roadside park.

But Geri Farris added that
Pearl seems to run into people
who take care of her.

“She’s lucky -— You wouldn't
believe how lucky that dog is,“
Geri Farris said. ‘

 




FT. LAUDERDALE NEWS/SUN-SENTINEL - March 19, 1988

 

 

; M etrozoo
s howcases

cute stars

By TOM LASSITER

Miami Bureau

Metrozoo’s three cuddly koalas, it
seems, are not so cuddly.

“They’re not social animals at all,” said
Bill Zeigler, the zoo’s general curator. “Fe-
males will tolerate each other pretty well,

 

..." but you can’t put males and females or

males and males together.”

That explains three separate display ar-
eas in Metrozoo’s new koala exhibit, which
Opens to the public toc‘ay.

The zoo expects the teddy-bear image of
the koalas to boost its flat attendance. The
new $350,000 exhibit is one of just four per-
manent koala exhibits in the country, and
the first outside of California.

“They’re so sweet, so cute,” said Irene
Cheney, who attended a guest preview and
planned to return soon with her grandchil-
dren.

The big moment of the preview came
when Koobor, a 10-year-old male koala,
was brought to the outdoor area of the ex-
hibit. He climbed his artificial tree, sat up-
right on a branch and peered about at the
adoring throng.

More typical of koalas were females
Sydney and Mueseli, who burrowed into
their cover of eucalyptus leaves inside
their glass-enclosed displays, cooled to a
koala-comfortable 72 degrees.

Koalas are prone to snoozing 20 hours
every day and are most active at dawn and
dusk, so a late afternoon visit to the exhibit
is the “best bet” for seeing the koalas,
Zeigler said.

Martha Backer already knew that.

“This was greatbecause they’re usually
not so active,” said Backer, who declared
the new exhibit “great, very nice.”

Metrozoo is haping the three koalas will
become four — or five, or more. The exhib-
it can accommodate 20 koalas, and Zeigler
said visitors to the zoo next fall might see
baby koalas.

Often incorrectly described as bears, ko-
alas are marsupials — animals that carry
their young in pouches. The shy, solitary
animals dine exclusively on eucalyptus
leaves, and Metrozoo has planted a 5-acre
plot of the trees to feed them.

The koala exhibit is the centerpiece of
the Metrozoo’s new Australian area, which
will feature red kangaroos and tree kan-

geroos when completed this summer.

U»: .w ..

Staff photo/ROBERT AZMmA

Koobor, 10, is in the Metrozoo koala exhibit with females Sydney and Mueseli from the San Diego Zoo.

 




TAMPA TRIBUNE - Msrch 18, 1988

200 architect duplicatesnature

By KURT LOFT .- said. “But I Swill— tellyou that- this
Tribune Staff Writer “Some elevations had to‘be re- wasn’t easy. If you look at the
, ‘fdon b 1. th t” S 1. b amount of effort and detail that

TAMPA—The Lowry Park Zoo- ;- , e ecause 0, a . 315 ury ~ t h' 8 ~11- -
10 ical Gard d . isaid. “These enVironments are not went m 0 t 15 3 ml ion phase, an
3 en was eSigned to be a $8 million office building has about

ica es; ' . .
natural. g m a cage you have all the 60 sheets (construction blueprints),

'All has run smoothly since the "I 23322185 (Of escape) knocked and this took 310 sheets.”

$20 million complex opened March . . . .. . ,, .
5, officials say, and the animal pop- . One exhibit ‘5 hOt'ered “Pm a Torre also wanted a central
ulation seems perfectly content in . mild electric current, but only 1“ an theme to “get people started” when
its “man-made” environment, area “m a remote chance 0f es- they entered the zoo; so his concern
That positive report reinforces cape. . . . in the final design came at the be-
the design theories of the people . MOSt. exhibits, espeCially “We ginning.
who created the zoo: A particular W’th primates, have streamhned .,
exhibit design helps keep animals rock faces .to prevent anammal That included a round orienta-
from grabbing hold of an indenta- tion court complemented by 12

content.
That was the job of Ace Torre, a tion and climbing out. Such details .. -
are hardly noticeable, and they al- fountains and a sculpture Of a man-

partner with Design Consortium of . -

New Orleans, which created the 24_ lowed the deSigners more freedom atee and Its calf. The court serves

acre master plan and a dozen oth- in creating aesthetic and natural- as an “arch” that links the three ex-

ers like it around country. looking environments, Salisbury hibit areas: Primate World, Asian

Lowry Park’s concept remained said. , . . Domain and the Aviary.

basic throughout: Create a space Although Lowry. Park Is conSid-

that puts people and animals togeth- ered Sm”. by national standards,

er, using natural-looking barriers — Torre said u was not easy to deSign
and, construct. It took more than 30

rather than bars —- as separation.
Torre said the old Lowry Park 200 workers more than a year to create 3 “We wanted to reorganize the

was negative reinforcement be- the ka work alone. ‘ ' whole entry experience ” Torre
cause the animals were miserable. ”We’ve ‘1er about every kind 0f said. “And we wanted a vernacular

“It’s a naturalistic exhibit,” Tor- exhlblt there IS, SO we know what Florida style. The orientation arch
re said. “The cages had to go.” works and what needs testing,” he.’ , is the image maker.”

See THE CAGES. Page 2F Salisbury said the 200’s design
succeeds because it “educates” the
Viewer without a lot of extended ef-

. _._... ...,.._

3 not a
he said,
(388in be-
d setting

, it’

That arch also will serve as a
beginning point once the $12 million
Phase II opens sometime in 1991.

",9,
85
axe

ike this
educauo

imilate thin
re 1'11 a rel
C approach.

hazooi
Ype of

Wm ass‘
ey’

“Wit
hard t

llpe
S a holisti

Torre insisted that trees be
saved and used as integral parts of
the exhibit space. The entire plan,

Cause tn

It’

 

then, wove around the numerous fort.

oak trees of Lowry Park.

And an elevated boardwalk runs
among the trees, serving as a con-
duit between visitors and animals,
Torre said.

Running waterfalls, natural-
looking rock formations, landscaped
islands, and wet and dry moats all
were tailored around the needs of
each animal environment, and
many variations had to be 'made
once the animals moved in.

The chance of an animal escap-
ing was —- and still is -— a big con-
cern for 200 officials, although they
prefer not to use words such as “es- .
capef’

The height of barriers and the
width of moats were judged careful-
ly, depending on the animal’s leap-
ing and climbing ability.

Of course, cages would be the
easy way out because there would
be no risk, said Lex Salisbury, the
200’s curator of animals. But that
would defeat the 200’s purpose, he
said.

s--.-zzm:z:§$§Wh .yv '

 

Architect Ace Torre helped create the master plan for the Lowry Park Zoological Garden. '

 

 




TMIPA TRIBUNE - March 20, 1988

 

 

 

 

 

Curriculum by Pat Yarnot, Lowry Park Zoo’s curator of education.

LOWRY PARK ZOO’S AVIARY

A lesson plan to accompany Dionne Brown’s Zoo
Reporter feature in tomorrow’s Tampa Tribune.

OBJECTIVE:

Children will design an aviary brochure using creative writing and research skills ‘and illustra-

tions.
MATERIALS: ’

. -* A classroom set of Monday’s Tampa Tribune, 81/2”x14” sheets of paper for each child, crayons
_; or markers, reference books, rulers, pencils. .

VOCABULARY:

aviary, brochure, species

ACTIVITIES:

1. Read Dionne Brown’s Zoo Reporter story about the bird brochure and the 200’s aviary. Lead
3 discussion about what the children would expect to see in the free flight aviary and the dif-
ferences they would imagine betwee ' ' nd viewing them flying through
a large aviary. What species of birds ' if they had the chance to stock

an aviary of their own? What would t ' ach bird?

. Now students are ready to design a rough copy of the layout for their brochure. The front
fold should display the title an an illustration of either the aviary, birds or whatever the
student decides. After the front fold the students should be on their own. They will need to
refer to number 2 for the parts of also need to write a descriptive text
to accompany the illustrations. The text should be as creative as they’d like.

. Once the text has been written and the illustrations completed, the students should be ready
to make the final copy of the brochure. Display the completed brochures on the bulletin
board. Send a few to the zoo tool .

EXTENSION:

Students could research different uses of advertising used in pamphlets.
The class could also design a brochure for their school or class.

 

LOW RY
PARK
ZOO

.Look for this week’s Zoo Reporter in Monday’s Tampa Tribune.

 

 

 




DALLAS MDRNING NEWS - March 14, 1988

Mama and llama

Doting mother Pickles hovers over her as-yet-un-
named baby, born Sunday morning at the Dallas
Zoo. The new llama, which weighs about 35
pounds, takes after its father, Freckles. Pickles

t—q

 

T

~ ,,.‘.,..,_,_,. ,.n,;..,...\.,,...._.,,Junk....,_,..,,.,-,, ..... _

 

.
, l , 2

.
. To“: 'lirv'alu‘:s;uamn .0, 7' ' yr..- ’

. The Dallas Morning News: Nuri Vallbona
and the youngster were reported in good condi-
tion, which gave the mother the worry-free

moments needed to take a few bites of hay. The

baby is the mother’s fifth.

 




THE HOUSTON POST - March 16, 1988

me for a Z 0 fee has
ome
‘bUdget

 

 

 

.’ By Eddy S. Blanton

 

In 1921, the US. government reduced herds of bi—
son in the national parks, donating a single buffalo to
~ the city of Houston for display in Sam Houston Park.
Since that time Houstonians have enjoyed free, unlim—
ited access to a zoological collection. Unlike the other
three major metropolitan areas in the United States
that maintain admission-free zoos, Houston relies
completely on city tax revenue to provide this luxury
for all visitors - whether they live in Houston and pay
taxes here or not.
The Zoological Society of Houston is a nonprofit
organization that over the past 20 years has secured
millions of dollars in private-sector support for the
development of the Houston Zoo. Recognizing that the
city’s cash crisis may have rendered it unable to pro-
vide an adequate source of funds for the operational
needs of our changing, growing 200, the Zoological
Society’s board of directors recently voted to support
admission fees as a means of generating urgently
needed supplemental operating funds for the 200.
I hasten to add that the Zoological Society has no
legal or financial connection'with the city of Houston.
Neither does the position of our directors necessarily
represent that of individuals associated with other 200
support groups, although the trustees of The Park Peo-
ple Inc. have given us their official support.
The Houston Zoo is Southeast Texas’ most popular
educational and recreational resource. lts continued
excellence is essential to the quality of life in our , . - _ _ ,
connnunity, and we must support some means of _ i " " ‘ , i , ...,, .. i as ~ ,,
naiiritaining this excellence despite cutbacks in city ‘ ' ' ' ' Post photo by Sandra Shriver
‘ \ . l ' ' '
{luggdgﬁbféﬁﬁsrgc'iigﬁrldofgtlboagﬁ)anigggohggzlmfg Cuts currently under consideration would mean closing the children's zoo.
funds, forcing Monday closings and, reduced summer
hours. " consideration would mean closing the children’s 200 grams for endangered species, which have brought

More substantial city budget cuts currently under (now called the Discovery ZOO)- Conservation Pr0* international recognition to the Houston ZOO in recent

 




COMMERCIAL APPEAL - 3/19/88

years, would also be curtailed. The long-term impact of '. —" ..-.-
further reductions in operating support could include -
closings of additional major exhibits.

Funds generated through 200 admission fees must

directly benefit the zoo and the Parks and Recreation
Department, not simply provide a new source of reve—
nue for the city’s general fund. Admission fees must
supplementthe Parks Department’s budget rather than
be offset dollar-for-dollar by reductions in the city's
general fund support for parks. Our board of directors’
support is conditional: It 200 admission fees do not
provide for a substantial increase in 200 operating
funds, the board will be strongly opposed.
' Because zoo admission charges may limit visits by
disadvantaged families, ourvdirectors also support a
plan to allocate 50 percent of the funds generated at
the 200 to re-establishment of neighborhood recre—
ational services lost in recent years due to city-wide
budget cuts. Clearly, disadvantaged Houstonians
would be better served by increased access to swim-
ming pools and recreation centers near their homes
than by unlimited free visits to the 200.

Under the terms of the proposal supported by the
Zoological Society, Houstonians will continue to enjoy
free access to the 200 on 10 to 12 officially designated
holidays each year. In‘ addition, area district school
children will be admitted free of charge when they visit
with a school group. The fees proposed —— $2.50 for
adults and 50 cents for children ages 3 through 12 ——
are the lowest admission fees of any 200 in Texas.

For two years, this board of directors has remained
neutral'on the issue of 200 admission fees. We’ve
taken this position in 1988 because we fear that the
alternative is a significant reduction in the overall qual-
ity of the Houston Zoo and its service to our communi-
ty. Those who agree with us are urged to contact their
council representatives.

 

“VI-“wrist Loﬂnssmqr, ;

u ‘2

Blanton is president of the board of directors of the Zoological
Society of Houston.

 

 

 

_ Camera 511. y

Clutching his security blanket, a lowland gorilla, believed to be

- the largest in captivity, made his first public appearance since ar-
riving at The Zoo in Pensacola, Fla. Colossus had spent most of
his 20 years indoors at an animal park in New Hampshire before
t: the Pensacola zoo bought him at auction for $37,800.

a“.

l
f

 




Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, GA 30345

March 22, 1988

iMr. Maurice L. Hickey
Editor G Publisher
The Denver Post
Denver, Colorado 80202

Dear Mr. Hickey:
As Executive Secretary in the Media Deptartment of the largest

Ad.Agency in the South, I have occasion to read your fine news-
paper on a daily basis.

It was with dismay that I read the letter from a Carroll Holl of
Brighton on March 12 stating ”In recent years, there has been
increased frequency of willful interference with these noble

and lawful sports," referring to hunting.

Hunting has never been, is not now, and will never be "noble”-
not to me nor to any truly civilized and compassionate individual.

The oft-repeated statement that if the hunters did not kill the
animals they would starve to death, has been run into the ground.
What the hunting element fails to mention is the fact that the
habitat of wildlife, and the predators which also occupy that
wildlife, have been eliminated so there is an abundance for the
hunter. Any individual with even a little intelligence knows

we have Fish 6 Game Departments to ensure there is an over-
abundance of wild animals fOr the hunter.

we seem to have such a fascination for the gun; we can't wait to
stick one in the hands of children, and as soon as they are able
to really learn to love and understand animals, they are taught
to kill them.

No - there is nothing noble in killing a beautiful animal, espec-
ially to hang the head on a wall, or win an award because the
animals is the biggest, or the fattest, or has the largest rack

of antlers. I wOuld venture to say that a survey of 5;; Americans
would prove there is nothing noble in killing any living creature.

Sincerely,

(Mrs.) Connie Yarbrough

 




 

. fined or " "‘risoned for talking too

..E . ~_

THE DENVER POST - March 12, 1988

Aﬂmu“ be free ‘0 enjoy Wilderness ‘ "

In response to Ken Clilouber’s

" March 2 guest editorial, “Hassle-
.free hunters fuel economy,” I feel

obligated to present the views of

_7 other people who use Colorado’s ..
{ wilderness areas foractivities oth-‘

er than recreational hunting.
Hundreds of people, including

9 me, migrate to Colorado’s isolated

areas throughout the year to find
solitude and to appreciate the nat-
ural beauty of our state.£h%er
stated that hunters, like all other
citizens, have rights that must be
protected. The explorers, hikers

f and campers need their rights pro.
-. tected as much as the hunters do.

I cannot-imagine living in C010-

.rado without being able to hike in
5'. the mo 1, "us, for ”fear of 'bein

g "hunt, trap gr
‘ ll

loudly. “Colorado’s Wilderness is

too precious to just be used as 1

hunting grounds. Helping the econ-

omy or not, the wilderness should

be enjoyable for everybody. .

" - -I. _ - ~ - LISA STEIN
7 lib_.,_.,..iwﬂminison

Intent‘isthe key + "

been expressed in opposition to

H3 1156, the hunter-harassment .

bill being considered in the Colora-
do legislature.

Judy Lubow, in her Feb. 9 letter
in The Denver Post, stated that
the bill “Would make it a criminal
offense for people in Colorado to
interfere with a person’s right to
fish.” That’s not
what the

ping or fishing

says. .The actual '

[working is, "‘No person shall W111- '

fully prevent or interfere with the
lawful participation of any individ-
ual in the activity of hunting, trap-.

in accordance with
this article." ‘

In recent years, there has been
increased frequencyzof willful in-

I. terference with these noble and
Recently, undue concern has

lawful sports. It is only appropri- *
ate that sportsmen should enjoy
freedom from such harassment. In 1
no way is this bill intended to in-
fringe upon the rights and free- " ’

(toms of others who are conduct- . ~

ing themselves in a proper and '
respectful manner. All sportsmen
should encourage their legislators '
to support this bill.
it CARROLL HO, L
-7

-Bri « on

 




 

o ‘ , . . _ ‘ .
c y, . .. ._ I x. ‘ V: .P r, I'.‘ ‘ ‘. ‘ ,I
f " ‘c T", .‘,,u,.\ .
. . . I.‘ .3 "‘2." "IX
. ' .‘cﬁltjf.’ A ‘I ‘23». / I I \ ‘ \ [I I If».
' . l .. qﬁt.:.“Lv-_ ' ' , . . L ‘ , .‘ M‘I.‘ ~
" \\ A \ g ‘ ”:9 . I ' . ,/./ K} \ \\ \ : . 1 . .\ ‘
. O - ' ».. -
th Y \

DETROIT FREE PRESS - March 20, 1988

, AN OPEN LETTER To ALL DEVOTED
. \f‘m SUPPORTERS OF THE OAKLAND HUMANE
' ' SOCIETY (SHELTER FOR UNWANTED ANIMALS)

- ‘ I I 7. Ifﬂé‘ﬁg‘g‘i‘E
AS MANY OF YOU HAVE BEEN AWARE, WE HAVE BEEN GOING THRU
EXTREMELY DIFFICULT TIMES FOR THE PAST 2 YEARS. WE HAVE PREVENT-
ED EVICTION FOR MANY ANIMALS WHICH WOULD HAVE MEANT CERTAIN
DEATHOR BEING SOLD FOR EXPERIMENTAL USE (DEATH PREFERRED). WE
ARE DELIGHTED TO INFORM THAT WE HAVE BEEN LICENSED AS A NEW
CORPORATION, HAVEN FOR UNWANTED ANIMALS, INC. THE ANIMAL
HAVEN IS LOCATED AT 19601 MT. ELLIOTT, DETROIT, MI., & THE GENERAL

OFFICE IS LOCATED AT 313 E. BALTIMORE, DETROIT, MI., 48202—3203.

WE AT THE HAVEN ARE PROUD OF THE IMPROVEMENTS ACCOMPLISHED,
BOTH INTERIOR & EXTERIOR FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE ANIMALS.

OUR DETERMINATION IS TO CONTINUE TO GIVE THIS TYPE OF HOME TO ALL
THE ANIMALS BROUGHT TO US. BUT WE CANNOT MAINTAIN THIS WITHOUT
YOUR CONTINUED HELPII WE FIRMLY BELIEVE IN A NO KILL POLICY,
THEREFORE, THE RESIDENT OF THE HAVEN MUST BE FED, HOUSED AND
CARED FOR MEDICALLY UNTIL THEY ARE ADOPTED TO NEW HOMES. THE
TASK IS PERPETUALII

WE HAVE STARTED OUR SPAYING & NEUTERING PROGRAM AND PLAN TO
CONTINUE IT IN OUR EFFORT TO CONTROL THE HOMELESS ANIMALS.

WEATHER PERMITTING, THE DOGS ARE ROTATED ON A REGULAR BASIS TO
BE IN THE RUNS OUT OF DOORS FOR FRESH AIR AND EXERCISE. ALL OF
OUR DOGS ARE HOUSED IN KENNEL RUNS, NO LONGER IN CAGES. USE OF A
CAGE IS FOR QUARANTEENMENT PURPOSES ONLY.

WE ARE CONFIDENT OF ALL ANIMAL LOVERS THAT YOU CAN SEE IT IN YOUR
HEARTS TO GIVE US A HAND FINANCIALLY, TO CONTINUE THIS WORK FOR
THE HOMELESS AND UNWANTED ABANDONED ANIMALS.

WE WISH TO THANK EACH OF YOU FOR YOUR DEVOTED SUPPORT,
BECAUSE WITHOUT IT, THE HAVEN FOR UNWANTED ANIMALS, INC.,
WOULD NOT EXIST. WE NEED THE HELP OF THE CARING PUBLIC NOWII

----------------------------------------- I
C

PLEASE SEND YOUR TAX DEDUCTIBLE DONATION TO:
HAVEN FOR UNWANTED ANIMALS, INC. MICS 12375
313 E. BALTIMORE
DETROIT, MI 48202-3203

NAME

 

 

 

 

 

ADDRESS

 

CITY/STATE .... AMOUNT

 

 

 




HOUSTON POS’l‘ - March 20, 1988

 

Lack of training standards cited

Drug-sniffing canines'

By Mike Yuen
OF THE HOUSTON POST

Twelve hours after KLM Flight
687 from Amsterdam landed in
Houston, Bubba was eagerly ex—

 

amining the airliner’s load of mail '

-- with his nose.

Bubba, a mixed Labrador re-,

triever, jumped on a conveyor belt
at Intercontinental Airport’s mail
facility, stuck his snout into the sea
of letters and parcels and soon was
excitedly pawing at a letter with no
return address that was mailed to a
post office box in Little Rock, Ark.

Inside were 6 grams of hashish.

Bubba also “alerted” to an enve-
. lope containing some photographs
but no narcotics. The person who
mailed the pictures probably had
handled hashish recently, causing
Bubba to pick up a scent, Customs
officials theorized.

Bubba and other Customs drug
dogs generally are considered
highly reliable in detecting dmgs.
But critics believe the ability of
dogs to sniff out narcotics is often
vastly overstated.

For example, a Houston police
narcotics dog recently failed a
courtroom test of his skills and
eight months ago an Everett,
Wash., drug dog alerted to a parcel
containing ginger root.

That’s the flip side to the na-
tion’s drug—dog corps, a canine
army of about 2,000 that is used by
the military, federal agencies, state
and local police and private securi-
ty firms. The sniffing skills of nar-

cotics dogs can vary, and some.

dogs that are being used are of

questionable dependability, dog
trainers and handlers acknowledge.

In what became the classic ex—
ample of a drug dog error, a
school-wide sniff of all the students
at a junior high in Highland, lnd.,
nine years ago resulted in the ca-
nine alerting on 50 students. Only
15 were carrying drugs. The dog
also continued to alert on a 13-
year—old girl even after the child
was strip-searched. it turned out
she had earlier played with her
dog, which was in heat.

   

‘ .51” s‘
. it

Some of the drug dogs used to-
day do lack reliability, according to
drug dog trainers and handlers, but
they maintain their numbers are
small and they are used mostly in
the private security sector.

“We didn’t certify them, but that
wouldn’t keep them from work-
ing,” said Billy Smith, a founder of
the National Narcotic Dog Detec-
tion Association, one of three US.
organizations that along with US.
Customs certify drug dogs.

Today, dogs have become an in-

 

By Mike Yuen
OF THE HOUSTON POST

When Houston police narcotics
dog Tarzan recently flunked a
courtroom drug~detecting test to
determine his reliability, he end»
ed up looking like something on
the “Stupid Pet Tricks” segment
on the David Letterman show.

Tarzan’s failure to “alert” on a
cocaine grinder also bit into the
credibility of all drug-sniffing
dogs, their handlers concede.

Six weeks before his courtroom
test, Tarzan supposedly had alert-
ed on the same cocaine grinder,
leading police to an arrest.

“The next time (defense attor-
neys) put any of my dogs in
court, I want to be there,” fumed

 

 

. Dog handlers reluctant
to face courtroom test .

Officer R.C. Smith, the trainer of
HPD's four narcotics dogs.

in the wake of Tarzan’s fiasco,
however, Houston~area handlers
of law enforcement drug dogs are
reluctant to have their animals
tested in court. , .

“If I’m subpoenaed to appear
in a courtroom for a situation my
dog initiated, l’m going to take
the documentation of what I do
with the dog, the training, the
certification,” said Department of
Public Safety investigator Phil
Goodwin, handler for the lions
ton-area DPS narcotics dog. Dan
Hilton, a US. Customs canine en-
forcement officer, will appear in
court only if allowed to set up and
supervise the demonstrations.
Tarzan’s test was established by
defense attorney Terry Collins.

 

 

 

- l! . «:3 I "

creasingly popular weapon in the
war against drugs, particularly with
law enforcement agencies such as
the Organized Crime Unit of the
Montgomery County Sheriff’s Of—
fice, which last month obtained
their first narcotics-detecting ca—
nine.

However, there is still no uni-
form standard in training and certi-
fying narcotics dogs. Nor are there
enforceable measures to keep dogs
that have failed certification tests
from being used.

The courts have uniformly al-
lowed alerts by narcotics dogs to be
used as sufficient probable cause
for searches and arrests, but only
after the reliability of the dog is
established.

But there has yet to be a case in
which the merits of a dog’s train-
ing, certification and track record
are litigated, said attorney Anthony
Natale of West Palm Beach, Fla.,
who has defended people arrested
as a result of drug—dog sniffs.

A 5th US. Circuit Court of Ap-
peals ruling five years ago declared
random sniffs of students unconsti-
tutional but said it was permissible.
for a dog to sniff a particular stu—
dent for drugs if there was “reason-
able suspicion.”

At the Customs canine school,
dogs go through a 90—day course.
But even after completion of the
course, the animals are not drug—
sniffing connoisseurs.

“it takes another six months be—
fore they’re working properly,”
said Kenneth Damron, the Cus—
toms officer who handles Bubba in
Houston.

 




DALLAS MORNING NEWS - March 12, 1988

Owners often take pets too lightlyjishe

By Anna Macias
Staff Writer

Samuel Barkins’ pit bull, Lady, kept
breaking her chain and escaping from the
fenced back yard. And Barkins’ neighbors
kept complaining to authorities about the
dog running loose and barking constantly.

0n the last of several trips to the pound
Lady was diagnosed with parvo virus and
became one of about 230 dogs euthanized
monthly at the Plano Animal Shelter.

. She also was one of 116 pets put to sleep
in February that were not picked up as

*‘gstrays ‘-—- but were left at the shelter by
their outliers.

Animal shelter workers across the ﬁal.

; las area say owners give countless reasons
_ for relinquishing their pets -- from hav-

ing an uncontrollable animalto having to
relocate because of their jobs. But the bot-
tom line is that many owners are irrespon~
sible, some shelter and Humane Society of-
ficials say. , ' ‘

“The biggest problem is the theory that
pets are disposable," said Jennifer Golden,
president of the Collin County Humane So-
.ciety. “it’s very easy to get one and very
easy to get rid of it.

“If you get a dog that's hyper, people
would just as soon trade it in for a new one

that‘s not hyper rather than train it," she
said. “A. national statistic shows that 30
percent of all animals are the offspring of
pther shelter residents . . . because people
t do not spay and neuter their pets.
“The shelter is just a revolving door."
Barkins admits that he probably should
1 have assumed more responsibility for
tsecuring his dog. but said he suffered a
great loss in giving up his pet of three
years. He was in the process of getting an
unbreakable chain for Lady when he was
gnotified that the dog was ill, he said.

i

ldon’t know what happened because when
they came and got her, she was in good

health, running around."

Barkins said he decided to let the shel-
ter euthanize the dog when shelter offi-

cials told him how sick she was.

g “I felt pretty bad,” said Barkins, 25, a _.
imanufacturing specialist. “I loved my dog.‘

“They made it sound like she was real
sick and I was going to be out of a lot of
money taking her to the vet,” he said.

. “They said nobody would adopt her be-

cause she was a pit bull and she was vi- :

l cious. And you know all the hoopla sur-
’. rounding pit bulls. She wasn't vicious."

_.

1;. ' '
i
..

in Garland, said 18 years of

iwork with animals has taught him

that people are more willing to give
up a pet during tough economic

~times. Annual reports show in-

creases in the pet population at the
Garland shelter during periods of
economic recession, he said.

“If economics are bad, you see
less animals re-claimed. And pre-
sumably, some of the animals are
being brought in because they just
don’t have the money to vaccinate
and feed them," Tuggle said. “A lot
of it would be economics, but people
don’t like to admit that they can’t af-
ford it.”.'

Tuggle said people give up pets
for many reasons -— even because a
newborn baby in a household where
the pet previously has been the cen-
ter of attention makes the animal
jealous and consequently destruc-
tive.

In Plano, Where 40 percent of the
pets at the shelter were delivered by
or picked up from owners, the "main
reason expressed for giving up pets
is a relocation to an apartment com-
plex that prohibits pets or moving
farther away than the pet can travel,
said Gary Masters, director of ani-
mal control.

“I have a problem relating that to
economic times,” Masters said. “I
would say there are more problems
with animals that got to be too large
for their environment.”

But there are other reasons for

giving up pets, owners Said. ' .

Suzanne, who asked that her full
name not be used, said she made a
mistake inadopting a puppy to take
her 8-year-old daughter out of the
doldrums. The puppy was given up
for adoption through the Plano Ani-
mal Shelter last month.

“It’s my fault,” Suzanne said. “I
didn’t think about it clearly. I just

said, ‘a puppy,’ that’s it.

“I didn’t .get the puppy house-

trained, because I work all day,” she
said. “And I couldn’t let her run
loose, because this is an apartment
complex. It just got to the point
where we would come home and

spend an hour cleaning up the mess .
5 in the laundry room. It wasn’t fair to f,
. ’- the dog either that we would only

Abe Tuggle, director of animal‘co‘ntrol . ’ .

see her three hours a day."

A 17-year-old Plano Senior High

‘ student said his parents were not
1, pleased when a friend gave him an '
1, 8-week-old habrador retriever for ‘

a dumping them.”

lter
[officials say

his birthday recently and the puppy

, “tore up the flower bed.” He took .
., the dog to the animal shelter.

“They didn’t think I was up for

" the responsibility,” the youth said.

”I’m not at the age where I can come
home and play with it. It needs a lot
of attention, food and expenses and
stuff like that.”

Masters said the Plano shelter

-_ keeps animals from one to seven
days, depending on whether they
_ are likely to be adopted. Sick, large,

unattractive, aggressive or older an-
imals or breeds in little demand are
euthanized. _> .

“It’s all related to our flow
through the shelter and whether we
have enough room,” he said.

But even pets labeled “stray" are
sometimes given up by owners, ac-

nCording to M0 Courtney of the Col—
, "fir. County Humane Society.

“I just picked up a momma and
into pups yesterday that had been

;dumped in a field," Ms. Courtney '
;said. “I know they had an owner.
The momma was real nice, but she

had been hit by a car and was limp-
ing.

“Some 'peoplethink that if they ;
dump their pets in the country, they
will survive,” she said. “That’s not
true. They only get sick and starve.
Even euthanasia is preferable to

 

The Collin County Humane Soci-

§ etyx'operates a shelter in Allen. The

society also enlists volunteers to act

.- as “foster homes” while it searches
' for homes for pets that are given up.

In February, the Humane Society
received 50 dogs and cats given up

i by owners and 89 strays. Another
. 124 dogs and cats were turned away

that month because of lack of space,
‘ Ms. Courtney said.

Animals can be adopted for fees

' ranging from $10 to $40 at the vari-

ous county shelters.

Ms. Golden said the Humane Soci-
ety plans to meet with city govern. '
ments across the county to push for
ordinances that would'require pet
owners and adopters to be more re- ;
sponsible for the animals.

 




 

- u"-.. ..,_

“ﬂ, Wednesday, March 23, 1988

Oh: AW _ ﬂout-nu!

Ban on pit bull terriers
Voted down in DeKalb

. By Anne Cowles
Staﬁr Writer

Animals were the main topic of
discussion at the DeKalb County
Commission meeting Tuesday morn-
ing, from a proposed ban on pit
bulls to complaints that the county
animal shelter is still providing
dogs and cats to Emory University
for medical research.

A countywide ban on pit bull
terriers, proposed by Commissioner
John Evans for the third time in two
years, was defeated by a 5-2 vote
with little discussion. Only Commis-
sioner Brince Manning 111 support-
ed Evans. .

Evans’ latest proposal followed
the recent fatal mauling of 2-year-
old Chatt Hyder, who apparently
wandered into a dog run in the back
yard of a house at 1379 South Indi-
an Creek Drive.

But a proposal by Commissioner
Sherry Schulman to ban the train-
ing of animals for ﬁghting is to be

considered by the commission at its
‘regular meeting in two weeks.

“Unfortunately, the profile we
have on the people who havepit
bull dogs that have proven violent
are ones who have trained them to

be aggressive,” Ms. Schulman said

after the meeting.
Ms. Schulman said she sees her

proposal as an alternative to ban--

ning the breed countywide.

The nine dogs found at the
South Indian Creek Drive home ap-
parently had been used in dog
ﬁghts, according to DeKalb Public
Safety Director Dick Hand.

“From our observations, they
appeared to have been used in com-
bat-type situations,” said Hand. But
he added that there could be prob-
lems enforcing Ms. Schulman’s pro-
posed amendment to the animal
control ordinance, if it is apprOved
by the board.

In another animal-related mat-
ter, Ms. Schulman criticized the
county for continuing to transfer an-
imals from the county shelter to
Emory University for medical
research.

DeKalb County Superior Court
Judge Robert Castellani last fall
banned the sale of animals for med-
ical research. But his ruling did not
ban the county from giving the ani-
mals away.

The DeKalb Coalition to Protect
Our Pets had sought an outright ban
on use of the animals in research
programs.

rﬁepsanqj, uo sena‘q‘g [em
v ouem em or iqﬁnoaq sum
yo peuopueqe puno; ‘

q; ‘pezdope
l

s .Ioioairp [ouuoo [em
eq or 51mm 9.12 Kenn Jaqieqm uo Bu

'~

‘peoa .raudnr

setddndkgo (1110.13 sit“,

.Ieuaqs at”,
-m

pued
dean

NIB 3

'SziB
-ep ‘sA‘ep Items 01 euo (no.1; sternum 5

1121310,“ A‘pnp :smaN Sugtuow sauna at“,

      

‘eptmﬁmnoo

au . pua Butﬁeds '1‘

mom ued puoaes

‘suoueutoom sill
AA...

‘6

B .10} arqtsuods
‘uondope 191m
dope .10; swam

Euro

.9; aq HIM uosxed e

'pms ans ..

                 

camber am 3811qu 01 mam a

memoir! Butlem
Motepuem B 3Q P
198 0113A em 01
mod z; mm 09 non

GILL"

 

 




Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, GA 30345

March 23, 1988

Mr. Haﬁbld Olson

Director

New Mexico Game. 8 Fish Dept.
State Capitol

Santa Fe, NM 87503

Dear Mr. Olson:

I hope you will let your sense of justice and fair play - to say
nothing of obeying the law — see that the trapper you now
have ”executing” an abundant number of lions in your state, is
discharged.

Remember, wild animals in this country do not belong only to

the rancher or the trapper - they belong to all the people, and
I believe the majority of these people would like to see these
animals unmolested and certainly not killed as they have been in
your state for far too long a period of time.

Our laws are established.because of the work of interested and

concerned individuals everywhere, and the only decent and fair

thing for you to do is to see that they are carried out in your
state where they are under your jurisdiction.

To find out that the man who is doing the trapping - often ille—
gally - of the mountain lion in your state is the father of one
of the rancher really makes a mockery of the law.

There is something I don't think most Game 8 Fish Departments
realize as yet 4 the animal rights movement is really just be-
_ ginning, and it is growing stronger all the time. One of the
reasons for this is just such a situation as exists in your state.

'Wild animals have just as much right to live as domestic animals.
They certainly have that right in our National Parks and Wildlife
Refuges. I hope your department will see to it that the slaughter
of the mountain lion is halted in New Mexico.

Sincerely,

(Mrs.) Constance F. Yarbrough

 




THE HOUSTON POST - March 16 , 1988

Is this what the well- dressed drug smfflng canine

When Houston printer and firearms dealer John
Gilson read that dope smugglers had put out a
$30,000 contract on a dog that helped sniff out $130
million worth of drugs along the South Texas border,
he immedi—

 

ately began F" J t

to design a
suit of body , Paul ‘ ‘
Harasim

armor that’ll
allow Fido
to withstand
bullets
sprayed
from a sub-
machine
gun at point-blank range.

“You have to promise me that you won't put my
address or where I work in the paper,” John whis-
pered into the telephone. “lf they’ll put out a $30,000
contract on a dog, what would they do to me for
trying to help the dog? . . . I don’t even want to think
about it.”

 

 

 

Worries

Driving Tuesday to meet John, we began to feel
just a tad edgy, too. Could a junkie in need of a fix
somehow have overheard Jolm’s phone call and
passed it on to the drug smugglers?

What if the smugglers hired a hit man and ordered
him to plunge syringes full of pure killer heroin into
the unarmored buttocks of John and a columnist as
they bent over to study diagrams of dog armor?

The meeting

The neighborhood was old. The day was young. A
squirrel ran up a tree. A squirrel ran down a tree. The
remains of . . . yes, of a dead dog, lay near the curb! lt
smelled of a smell that should never be smelled.

After we entered a room that held John and other
, print shop employees, lohn looked around furtively
" and then asked: ‘Do you mind if we talk outside?”

(onvinced his location wouldn’t be given away,
John displayed the diagrams They’ re truly profes-
sional. lf armor—wearing Charlemagne —— the most
famous ruler of the Middle Ages -—- were reincarnated
as a dog in 1988, he would surely wear his armor as
John pictured it.

“Although the hard case skull cap is capable of
stopping a 7. 62mm NATO rifle bullet, its main pur-
pose as shown here is to distribute the overall shock
of a smaller-caliber bullet to a larger percentage of the
skull,” John explained. “This technique is used to
lessen the chance of a concussion or a skull fracture
which could be due to a counter-sinking effect of the
softer kevlar material upon bullet impact.”

(Kevlar aramid is the bullet—resistant material used
in all standard police-type bulletproof vests.)

The reason

Why isn’t John -— who has a patent pending on his
dog armor —-— also covering the dog’s eyes and legs?

“I could have special plastic—type plugs over his
eyes but he couldn’t see very well,” he replied. “And
if a bullet hit one, it would probably just be driven
into his head . . . If we put armor on his legs, it would
be hard for him to get around . . . Besides if he gets
shot in the leg, he could probably still limp around
and do his job.”

Economics 81 comfort

Cost for both the bulletproof bonnet and vest is
roughly $1,400. Even with all the layers of bulletproof
material on the dog, John estimates it would only
weigh about 19 or 20 pounds.

(Belgian Malinois male dogs, the best dope sniff—
ers, weigh 60 to 80 pounds.)

Even as lightweight as the armor seems, U.S. Bor-
der Patrol assistant chief E.J. Vickery —-— who
learned recently through confidential sources that
smugglers have targeted a McAllen Malinois for exe-
cution --— worries that his dogs couldn’t live with the
weight in the oppressive lOO-degree—plus heat along

 

 

 

Post graphic
the border.

“I don’t want to rule it out but it would get awful
hot for them,” E.J. said. “I’m sure they would need
water rather frequently if they wore armor.”

Couldn’t the dogs wear a canteen kind of device? If
a tube was placed near their mouths, couldn’t they
suck water out of it when they were thirsty?

“I wouldn’t want to rule it out,” said E.J. “It could
be possible.”

Dog trainer's bark

After Houston police officer Ed Culver — one of
the trainers of the dogs that comprise HPD’s K-9 unit
--— claimed the armor would be impractical because of
its weight, he started barking about something else.

“Do you know why we have the K4) unit cars
clearly marked?” he asked.

Even before we could try to answer, Ed told us
why

“Because before when a lot of police cars arrived at
a burglary scene, an officer would evitably get in the
wrong car,’ ’he explained. ‘The dog thought to him-
self, ‘That doesn’t smell like my master,’ and go right
for him. You’d be amazed at how fast an officer can
move . .

 

 




,gsﬁop

3A0| eqonoae'j 10 313111101101 9111 '110ddns o1 ems

l/V’l

“pauue1d

'pe11oxe pewaes 9118
se u018u1qseM U1 Aepsmql aoue101u00 SSQJd 2 men

‘uew ml mm; 11119111 139101d 01 10mm Buueam 980p 10

K1111qgssod e111 1n0qe eueq p101 8M ueqm ‘KEM/{uv
'1au11a11 5111 U1 1119p e1nd
80p 9111 '1911 11213111 3111 p112 1903 e111 9111 SEM 111111 pews:
. 12111 8u1111 [(1110 9111 pue 9111 e 10 euaos 3111 12 193 6')l

'1ue110du11 001 s1 u01sn0H
- pa>1112u1un 1112 0mm 01 p9111 uewen; 2 sum euo,,

U1 )110M 5111 pappap 3M 1118,, 'p1es eueq H‘eqonoa

(L

66

' pue su1011 119111 Bumolq $13A11pq123 1o sade1 Suﬁsm

NLLBT'Inﬂ

“'3193115 9111 no 01511111 mm 9111 01

pesn 138 men eqs 09 xoq u100q e Bug/(11123 am 108 113.10

l

10“”? 0N

'K113 11101 MaN ueppu-awuo 111 8u13ue1d

9111!} 191! JO 119d PUSdS [HM 9118 118110111 ueAa 10111113-
Kpoq 101 pang Sq 1011 [RM ‘ueqog qu'] ueuiom 311011

('Kew U1 e1ddv 318 9111 U1 331110 puooas e dn uado
41191 ouqnd Kq paumo 80p 9111 ‘aennw ‘K1q1pe13111

('MOU 111811 110d11e 3111 112 epueBedmd e1pped 01
31mm 911110110321 191110 ou sueeul Klqeqmd 112111)

01 peppep seq ‘sas11d1a1u3 ooum 10 1aumo ‘11qu)

Buueem eq 11

51111314 111 KBMQ ieMod 9111 Bu1>1121 3.19 smuoweg 9111

9112 Kued 311913011190 3111 pue apneu) 8u1111e1110$ 5,11,,
'pges eqs “‘qof 31111M11110M e qons qons 0p A3111w
42'] UOPUK'] 10 1311101101 2 3,911 esneoeq 1snl 1(1un03
M011 u0 11181110ds [euoneu 9111 $1130; 01 1391112111 am”
01 8u108 10u 31 senor sprung 11121111112113 1(qu 3111213
-01ue(] 1(1un03 51111211 [(123 01 panes — 1uap1seid 101
uﬁgeduieo 31131103111 uopuK'] 0111 101 K112191093 SSQJd
peseq-‘g'q u018u1qsem e111 —— uonmos 91190 21011119
Apoq Bop 1n0qe 911101 8u1mewa1u1 3.18M 9M sv

; aim/(9111,, 'pau121dxa 911$ ‘Bumeﬁ pue 8u1ssn3 e[doad
91,3111 pue 31311 1001139 aoua1paq0 u1 1311 108 9.111,,

LEGISLATURE ’88

 

, Senate endorses ban
on harassing hunters

By Mark Obmasclk
Denver Post Staff Writer

Animal lovers who harass hunt-
ers, fishermen or trappers would
be fined up to $500 under a bill that
won initial approval Wednesday
from the state Senate.

Supporters said the bill, the only
survivor of three gun laws that had
been pressed by the National Rifle
Association, will help protect Colo-
rado’s lucrative outdoor recreation
industry.

In other states, proponents said,
anti-hunters have taken to the
woods on opening day. of big game
season and scared away deer and
elk.

“The guys with a trumpet and
nine drums in the timber -— these
are the guys we’ re trying to stop,”
2 said state Sen. Dave Wattenberg,
' R- Walden.

Approval came after senators

agreed to also ban harassment of
“wildlife watchers.” Backers of
that amendment, which passed by
a 14-13 vote, said it would protect
people in the backcountry who
aren’t trying to kill game.

“The guy out there who is a pho-
tographer should have just as
many rights as the hunter out
there,” said Senate Democratic
leader Ray Peterson.

But lawmakers rejected a
change that Sen. Regis Groff said
would make it illegal for hunters to
shoot someone who jumps between
a nimrod and his quarry. As the bill
was written, Groff said, a hunter
could escape penalty for killing an
anti-hunter who jumps in the line
of fire to protect an elk.

“I’m worried that some wild, ir-
responsible hunter could shoot
somebody and escape penalties,”
said Groff, a Denver Democrat.

The bill ultimately was approved
after two lawmakers, Sen. Tom
Norton, R- -Greeley, and Sen. Claire
Traylor, R—Wheat Ridge, proposed
frivolous amendments that would
have made it illegal for “pinko
commies” or a Lady Godiva to

 

The Denver Post / Duane Howell

Lou Bruno, National Rifle Association lobbyist from Washington,
right, confers with Sen. Dave Wattenberg, sponsor of harassment bill

frolic in the woods during hunting
season.

The hunter-harassment bill,
which already has been approved
by the House of Representatives,
still must be approved once more
by the Senate.

 

 

886T ‘LI IPIBW - lSOd HEIANEKI




Evans: Citizens Must Mobilize

 

Commission Reiects
Ban 0n Pit Bull Dags

By STEVE TEASLEY

There’ll be no DeKalb ban on pit
bull terriers at this point in time,
the county commission decided
Tuesday on a 5-2 vote.

And, District 3 Commissioner
John Evans, who proposed the ban,
said there won’t be one in the
future unless local citizens “mobi-
lize” and make his fellow commis-
sioners listen to their concerns.

“Nobody is going to be aware of
the signiﬁcance of what you’re
saying until you mobilize,” Mr.
Evans told a handful of citizens
who came to Tuesday’s board meet-
ing individually to talk about the
proposed pit bull ban and other
possible new animal control mea-
sures.

Mr. Evans had suggested pit
bull bans twice last year with no
success. And, he tried again this
week after a two-year-old east De-
Kalb boy was killed by one earlier
this month.

But, once more only Brince Man-
ning supported the proposal.

Before the vote, Mr. Evans told
the commissioners, “I think the
question still remains how many
deaths do we have to have in this
bounty before it becomes reasona-
ble to take action...I guess all we
are doing is waiting for the worst.
It’s important to take a stand and
let the community know that at
least most -of us put human lives
ahead of animal lives.”

The commissioner said he hoped
— if his ban didn’t pass -— that
county animal control officers
would strictly enforce the existing
‘ laws and “do what you have to do
to protect the people of this
county.”

AN HOUR AFTER the vote,
several citizens showed up at the
public hearing portion of the meet-
ing to discuss the Evans proposal.
Most were surprised that the ver-
dict was already in.

But, several testified anyway.

A Stone Mountain mother of
four argued that DeKalb’s existing
“dangerous animal” law that per-
mits “a free bite” before the owner
is required to take special precau-
tions is “out to lunch.”

She urged the county to look at.
a Rhode Island law that defines a

“dangerous animal” before it bites
anyone.

A northeast Atlanta woman at-
tacked DeKalb reports showing
that German Shepherds and even
Poodles bit more DeKalb people
last year than Pit Bull Terriers.

“Poodles might bite more peo-
ple, but they are not killing any-
body,” said the woman, citing
studies that claim pit bulls have
“flawed genes,” causing them to be
more dangerous to humans.

There are fewer pit bulls than
shepherds and other dogs in De-
Kalb; therefore local statistics
showing the number of bites by
breeds aren’t necessarily valid, she
said.

Earlier, DeKalb public safety

ofﬁcials had estimated that there
are about 275-300 registered pit
bulls in the county. There was no
guess as to how many aren’t regis-
tered. '

Most of the citizens argued in
favor of stronger animal control
laws —— regardless of the pit ,bull
ban outcome.

One woman said the county
should use the money it would
spend legally defending a pit bull
ban on enforcing the existing law.

After their remarks, Commiso
sioner Robert Lanier told the citi-
zens that board members are “in
sympathy...lt was a horrible thing
that happened, and we’re all con-

, (See DOGS, Page 7A)

Board Won't Block
Animals To Emory

By STEVE TEASLEY

Despite Commissioner Sherry
Schulman’s charges that county
government is about to lose the
public’s conﬁdence, the board ma-
jority Tuesday decided not to block
the donation of county pound ani-
mals to Emory University for re-
search purposes.

Ms. Schulman, who represents
District 2, told fellow commission-
ers that she was “absolutely aston-
ished” to learn last weekend that
DeKalb’s animal control unit was
handing over pound dogs and cats
to Emory researchers.

She said the public’s “percep-
tion” from the outcome of a law
suit last year is that DeKalb no
longer supplies animals for re-
search purposes. And, she charged
local public safety officials -— who
oversee animal control operations
— with changing the county’s pol-
icy without informing the board or
the pi} blic.

Last year, Ms. Schulman and
other anti-pound seizure advocates
tried to convince the commission-
ers to halt the practice of selling
pound cats and dogs to Emory and
other research hospitals. They al-
leged that such use of animals is

cruel.

After interviewing researchers.
the board majority decided that the
animals were not being mis-
treated, and it agreed that the
research is important for the
health of both humans and ani-
mals.

However, a suit brought by ani-
mal rights activists led early this
year to a court ruling prohibiting
the county government from “sell-
ing” the animals to researchers.

Ms. Schulman said she and the
public have been under the impres-
sion that the practice of sending
animals to researchers had been
halted with the judge’s ruling.

BUT, DEKALB public safety
boss Dick Hand Tuesday told Ms.
Schulman that his animal control
unit has been giving animals to
Emory —- not selling them.

And, that, he said, is a continua-
tion of previous. board policy.

According to Mr. Hand, DeKalb
has donated about 20 animals to
Emory since the court ruling.
doing it with instructions from
Chief Executive Officer Manuel

(See BOARD, Page 7A) .“'//

 




,L:

 

cerned.”

But, it said the pit bull contro
versy has become “an emotiona.
issue.”

-He pointed out that children are;
killed each year in swimming poo?
drownings and auto accidents, but
there is no demand by citizens to
ban pools or automobiles.

He described how his own
daughter was mauled as a seven-

. ; year-old and nearly killed by a
German Shepherd,

DEKALB NEWS/ SUN (Atlanta)

- MaTCh 23 , 1938. f

 

IN OTHER MATTERS Tuesda§ .
the commission:

.0 deferred action on a proposal
by Commissioner Sherry Schul-
man to prohibit the training of
animals for ﬁghting.

0 agreed to increase -- from
$52,500 to $105,000 — the amount
of the contract with Leo A. Daly
Co. for design of DeKalb’s new
animal control shelter. The com-
pany’s contract calls for it to re
ceive seven percent of construction
costs. And, because the facility is
now expected to cost $1.5 million -

twice the original projection —- tin
.y; . architect’s fee will double.

 

 

NEWSphoto By Jim Cook Jr.

Pit Bull Now At DeKalb Animal Control Is Blamed For Death Of 2-Year-Old

Pit Bulls Lose Charm In DeKalb
Following Fatal Attack On Child

By KIRK MARTIN

A number of DeKalb County
residents have decided to get rid of
their pit bulls after the fatal maul-
ing of a Stone Mountain boy ear-
lier this month further added to
the dangerous image of the breed.

A new wave of pit bulls were
dropped off by their owners at the
county Animal Control facility fol-
lowing the death of Chatt Hyder,
2, Friday, March 11 after being
attacked by at least one of nine pit
bulls being kept at a home at 1379
S. Indian Creek Dr., Stone Moun-
tain.

By' the end of the following
Tuesday, eight pit bulls had been
left at the pens near Memorial
Drive and 1-285, according to Sgt.

Harvey Pearson.

They joined the nine pit bulls
impounded from the residence of
Currie Hobbs, 33, after the fatal

attack.

Pit bulls at the county pound are
moderate-sized dogs ranging in
color from light-eyed white ones to
gold to the scrawny, leggy black

one actually believed to have

killed the two year-old.

The dogs will likely eventually
be destroyed -- by lethal injection --
although separate decisions will be
made on each of the dogs, Pearson
said.

Bob Mooreﬁeld, a DeKalb resi-
dent who operates an Atlanta dog
training school, believes pit bulls
have gotten an unfair reputation
because of attacks in which they

have been involved.

“Responsible pet owners are
being bashed by the irresponsible,”
he said. Owners are responsible for
the dogs they keep and for keeping
them away from other citizens.

Mooreﬁeld said he keeps his own
dogs behind a six-foot fence at his
home.

Shepherds and Rottweilers are
Mooreﬁeld’s choice for the spe-
cially trained dogs he supplies to
customers.

“The pit bull would not be the
choice because the aggression level
would be higher than is appropri-
ate,” he said. “He has one primary
negative: he doesn’t stop.”

“There are a lot of good pit bulls
out there,” Mooreﬁeld said. “I do
think they get the wrong end of

;+ 9’

 




ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH - March 20, 1988

Gorilla At Florida Zoo
Enters Brave New World

PENSACOLA, Fla. (AP) -
Clutching a security blanket in his
huge hands, Colossus the gorilla
ventured cautiously outside his
cage Friday for the first time
since he was captured as an in-
fant, 20 years ago.

Colossus” weight is estimated at
550 pounds. He is billed as the
largest lowland gorilla in captivi-
ty. He was introduced Friday to a
two-story building built especially
for him at the Pensacola Zoo.
When his cage was opened,- he
never strayed more than a few
feet from the door.

At first, he only poked his head
out and scanned his crescent-
shaped, 6,000-square-foot exterior
enclosure, its walls lined with
about 100 reporters, photogra-
phers, zoo employees, students
and professors.

“He’s never really had the wind
in his face, the rain in his face,
the sun on him in 20 years,” said
Pat Quinn, director of the 200.

On Friday, Colossus felt some
wind and even a few drops of rain
but not much sun on an overcast,
drizzly morning. The temperature
was in the low 505.

Until he was moved to Pensaco-
la last Sunday, Colossus had spent
nearly all his life in a 240-square-
foot indoor cage at Benson’s Ani-
mal Park in Hudson, NH. The
Pensacola Zoo bought him for
$37,800 at auction when Benson’s
closed in October. But he re-
mained at Benson’s until his new
home could be built.

Although he first pounded his
chest when he was placed in his
cage Sunday night, Colossus was

silent as he explored his new out-
door world.

When the door to his cage was
opened, Colossus peeked out sev-
eral times before extending his
right hand —-- still clutching the
blanket —— into the world outside,
then retracting it.

He did this several times, put-
ting one arm out and then both,
before he finally climbed outside.

'Then he withdrew several more

times into his cage.

At one point, the 6-foot, 2-inch
ape bent over to smell the grass
just outside his door before
bounding back inside. '

“He doesn’t know what it is,”
Quinn said. “He’s figuring out
what this new texture is under his
feet.”

The 200 plans to breed Colos-
sus, but first the giant ape will
have to learn how to behave like a
gorilla because he has not seen
another member of his species
since his capture, Quinn said.

Samson Is Dead At 30

@1988, Reuters News Service
BROOKFIELD, Ill. —— Samson,
a 30-year-old gorilla believed to
have been the oldest breeding
male of his species in captivity,
has died at the Brookfield Zoo,
near Chicago, the zoo said Friday.
Samson was on loan from the
Buffalo Zoological Gardens of
New York. He died Thursday af-
ter apparently suffering a stroke
two days earlier, said Linda El-
bert, a representative of Brook-

 

field. She said an autopsy had dis— ll

closed that he had a large brain
tumor.

.5

"‘q ””9“”310 U9~oszqnd 9,8dwé?

'emidgnos eeieueui 5,002 )ued MMO'I 1|

. SleItHd )lHVW 5‘! udelﬁmoud aunqy J.

 

 

8861 ‘91 143mm - sunsmi Vdiwi.

 

 




ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH - March 13, 1988

4.-.“... -M “a... .. .n —-N- -~ v...

A

 

 

ll

.9»in

 

Right on TraCk - . 7 ‘ . Wayne Crosslln/Post-Dispatch

Dave leppert, a mechanic at the St. Louis Zoo, getting the season Friday. Visitors will be able to ride the train that day
track ready for the Zoolina Railroad, which will open its 25th to celebrate the reopening and the Zoo’s 75th anniversary.

 

 

l

 




WAIKIKI BEACH PRESS - Feb. 8—14, 1988

7w

Wholphin!

The world's only known “wholphin,' a
hybrid cross between an Atlantic bottlenose
dolphin and a false killer whale, is currently in
training at Sea Life Park on Oahu's southeast
shore.

Called “Keikaimalu,” the baby was born at
the ocean park on May 15, 1985. At that time,
it was not known if the offspring would live,
much less be trainable. A similar birth had
occurred in Tokyo in 1981, but the animal
survived only a short time.

Now, 2 1/2 years later, Keikaimalu, who
weighs 500 lbs., has begun to learn the ropes.
Marlee Breese, a senior trainer at Sea Life Park,
recently elicited the first porpoising, or
jumping behavior ever displayed by Kekaimalu
as a response to stimuli given by a trainer.

”We had seen her jump with her mother in
the tank before," said trainer Breese, “but
they were just playing around. This was the
first time she jumped on command and
received a reward."

Sea Life Park uses a form of Skinnerian
operant conditioning in training its animals,
which involves ignoring bad or incorrect
behavior and rewarding good, or desired
behavior. “We always felt she was trainable,”
remarked Breese. “Kekaimalu has all the
elements needed to be trained --—— she isn’t

afraid to try new things and has a healthy
appetite. She’s been a fast learner as a result
and now that she is ‘stimulus-conditioned,’
there is really no limit to what she can learn.”

The training department will continue to
work with Kekaimalu away from the public eye
for at leasr another year. At that time, the

park"; staff will consider whether or nor she is

W .‘ﬁooao 39*“

Punahele (right) is dwarf y her tubby, two-
and—a-half year old offspring Kekaimalu. The
hybrid whale/ dolphin is nearing her third
birthday.

- Sea Life Park photo by Monte Lost:

ready to join the Whaler’s Cove show.

“We’ll probably introduce her slowly, for
three to four months at a time,” says Ingrid
Shallenberger, curator of mammals at Sea Life
Park. “We’ll give her a rest periodically as we
do with all our young animals. Since this is the
first time a wholphin has survived this long,
we are writing the textbook on the subject.”

Those wishing to see Kakaimalu before her
debut may do so on a “Behind-the-Scenes"
tour offered at the park five times daily. For a
nominal fee, in addition to regular park
admission, guests can explore several
fascinating areas usually off-limits to the

public. Call Sea Life Park at 25957933 for more

inf ormation.

DEKALB NEWS/SUN (Atlanta) — 3/23/88

paisn

y will spay or neuter

for the following prices

y of the

' pril - Prevent a Litter Month.
, in cooperation with the HSUS cam

, 12 veterinarians in DeKalb Count
nations will have to be given before

and the cat or dog must
er does not include any vaccinations.
eterinarians in your area, please call

in the United States approximately 7 and 1/2 million
re humanely killed in shelters and humane societies
p decrease this number, the Humane Societ

(HSUS) has declared A

During the month of April

Appointments must be made,
have current vaccinations OR vacci
surgery. The cost of the spay or neut

In order to hel
and the ADA

Every year
United States

cats and dogs a
For a lis

9814720

Veterinarians Say ’Spay, Don’iL LiHer,’
i2 Offering Special April Prices
cats and dogs living in DeKalb County

because of pet overpopulation.

t of the participating v

, 294-0183 or 498-1946.

“Spay - don’t litter” is their message.

 




 

 

Tl-E DAILY TELEGRAPH (London, England) - March 18, 1988

 

 

From doghouse to stardom

N abandoned Springer
spaniel rescued from
Battersea Dogs Home

with broken teeth and “fur
like a nylon lavatory brush” is
set to join top television car-
toon characters such as the
Flintstones, Top Cat, Yogi
Bear and the Smurfs.

The six-year-old dog is
called Potsworth, and he is
the inspiration for Sleepy
Kids, the ﬁrst British cartoon
idea to attract backing from
American-based Hanna Bar-
bera, the world’s largest pro-
ducer of animated television
programmes.

Conceived by a childless
husband and wife team —- Viv
and Martin Powell of Bushey,
Hertfordshire —- with no track
record in cartoons, Sleepy
Kids is an innocent tale of
magic potions, pink moun-
tains, haunted castles and the
supernatural powers of six
children with names like
Brainy, Fizzy and Cuddly.

The action, which takes
place only when the children
are asleep, involves conﬂicts
with a grey giant and his vari-
ous incompetent stooges. Cen-
tral to the plot is a literate
hound, Potswoof, alias Pots-

Virginia Matthews

tells how a rescued

dog inspired a new
British cartoon series

worth, the real-life doe-eyed
dog rescued by the Powells.

As a bankable cartoon
series, Sleepy Kids has all the
classic prerequisites of fan-
tasy, magic and children’s
power. It also has the more
contemporary features of
social awareness -— Brainy
will be black and possibly
wheelchair-bound, Fizzy is
Oriental, Cuddly is from a
one-parent household —— that
the average four-year~old has
come to expect.

Hailed as one of the biggest
potential money-spinners
since My Little Pony, Sleepy
Kids will begin with a tele-
vision series. Thereafter you
will be pressed to buy the toy,
read the book, watch the mov-
ie and quite possibly see the
musical.

The Powells have negoti-
ated a co-production deal that
gives them a large measure of
creative control. Hanna Bar-

bera has provided an initial
investment of $15 million.

“The idea for "the cartoon
came from watching Pots-
worth,” says Viv, 30, who is
now Sleepy Kids’ chief script-
writer. “He is simply the
most human, communicative
dog I have ever known. The
kids bit came from suffering
bedtime screams round at
friends’ houses. The combina-
tion of children and an animal
is what makes the story.”

Hanna Barbera’s vice-presi-
dent of creative affairs, Jeff
Segal, says: “What we’re now
looking for is the sort of ani-
mation that uses characterisa-
tion, humour and adventure,
not beatings.”

Viv Powell gave up running
a shop to work full-time on
the series. Martin, 31, left the
family advertising firm and
between them they have sunk
more than £30,000 on some-
thing that began as a hobby
and is now a full-time career.

“We don’t want to inject
Sleepy Kids with any sort of
moral message,” says Martin,
“but we both feel quite
strongly about teaching kids
respect for animals, particu-
larly after the state Potsworth
was in when we found him.”

 

 

 

 

Picture: CLARE ARRON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Potsworth (mp), the inspiration for Sleepy Kids cartoon
character Potswoof, with Snorey and Chilly




DALLAS MORNING NEWS - Sept. 25, 1986

Owner receives '

help from many
By Bobette Riner

Mid-Cities Bureau of The News

, ARLINGTON -- A day after Mag-
gie Mooneyham’s dog was clubbed
to death, she fielded phone calls
Wednesday from sympathetic
strangers.

And she already has hopes for a
new dog — from .an Arlington
Humane Society official who helped
her deal with authorities after the
death of her dog, Jack, on Tuesday
morning.

“I’m going to get me another,”
Mrs. Mooneyham said.

When a neighbor of the Mooney-
hams, 35~year-old William Randall
Hilliard, was charged with animal
cruelty in connection with the
dog’s death, Humane Society Presi-
dent Don Praeger, the owner of
Country Acres Kennels in Arling-
ton, helped persuade municipal
court Judge Mike Smith to set an ex-
ample by setting a $50,000 bond.

Hilliard was released from Ari.
ington .city jail Wednesday after
posting a $1,000 cash bond after
state District Judge Gordon Gray is-
sued a writ of habeas corpus, ,au~
thorities said. '

Maggie Mooneyham of Arlington holds her
remaining dogs, Fefe and Sissy, in her

Police said Hilliard gave them a
statement in which he admitted
killing the dog, using a stick be.
cause, he explained, he didn’t have
a gun. Hilliard could not be reached
for comment.

Mrs. Mooneyham and her hus-
band of 32 years, Reece, received
neighbors at their north Arlington
home Wednesday, all of whom
fretted about the incident.

A woman who said she saw the

beating from her kitchen window -

said the dog was wandering around
outside.

“I was talking to it. I said, ‘Hi,
Jack!’ " said Thelma Murray. “Then

 

to death.

I turned around to grab my coffee
cup and heard its little yelp. He was
over there beating it to death."

Police said a private autopsy
showed the dog suffered four
blows, any of which could have
killed him.

The Maltese-type dog would have
been 1 year old Wednesday, Mrs.
Mooneyham said as she hugged one
of her two surviving dogs, Fefe, a 7-
year-old Chihuahua. Another
Chihuahua, Sissy, has been with the
family 14 years.

Dogs and children have been a
staple in the Mooneyham home. As

foster parents, the warm-hearted

The Dallas mrnieé Newerillam Sum-ye
front doorway. Her other dog was clubbed --

couple have cared for about 35 chil-
dren in the past 15 years —- and
throughout their marriage, eight
dogs in all.

She also said she has hired an at-
torney to investigate the possibility
of suing Hilliard.

“I know there’s nothing I can do
to bring him (Jack) back, but
maybe it’ll lamp other people and
him from dois.._:.:»; anything else like
that,” she said.

Pe0ple M Mooneyham had
never met Called her to offer sup-
port after beaming news reports of
the incident, noth at her home and
at the police station.

 




 

DALLAS MORNING NEWS

Man hel
in dog’s
death

Arlington judge sets
bond at $50,000

By JACQUIELYNN FLOYD
Staff writer

ARLINGTON -— Maggie
Mooneyham and her dogs are a
familiar sight to the closely knit
residents in the modest frame
houses along Altman Drive in
north Arlington. After breakfast,
the 66-year-old widow likes to go
visiting, often carrying her little
Maltese, Jack, tucked under one
am like a purse. .

Jack, a friendly, 3-pound pup
py with silky white fur, was a fa-
vorite with the neighbors. And it
was a shocked neighbor who
looked out her window early
Tuesday and saw a man across
the street club the little dog to
death with a wooden stick, calm-
ly wipe his hands and walk back
inside his house. .

The neighbor called Mooney-
ham, who ran across the street to
ﬁnd her puppy lying dead in a
pool of blood.

“I’m glad I didn’t see it hap
pen. If I’d seen it, I’d have had
heart attack,” Mooneyham ' -a.
“I loved that puppy, and he
loved me, too."

Late Tuesday, William Randall
Hilliard, 35, was being held in
the Arlington City Jail on $50,000
bond. He was charged with
cruelty to animals and if convict-
ed faces up to a year injail and a
$2,000 ﬁne.

The usual penalty in such

cases is a modest fine and a stern '

lecture by a judge. In the case of

Jack’s death, however, outraged .

neighbors and officials of the Ar-
lington Humane Society decided
to send a message to potential
animal abusers. They started by
persuading Municipal Court
Judge Mike Smith to set the high
bond.

“The message we want to get

— September 24, 1986

 

 

- . . 5 '5' ‘\
:QrQ-‘rzn'x .". :1. av.

 

Mike McLean/Dallas Times Herald

Maggie Mooneyham holds two of her dogs outside her Ar-
lington home Tuesday. ‘I’m glad I didn’t see (the beating of
her third dog) happen,’ she says. ‘If I’d seen it, I’d have had a
heart attack. I loved that puppy and he loved me, too.’

across is that you cannot do this
sort of thing to animals,” said so-
ciety President Don Praeger.
“We’re talking about a little
friendly puppy. We’re not talking
about a killer pit bull.”

Police say Hilliard readily ad-
mitted killing the puppy outside
his home at 1418 Altman Drive
“because it came in his yard.”
Police say Hilliard threatened to
do the same to any other dog
that strayed on his property.

A local attorney on the Hu-
mane Society’s board of directors

has offered to wage a civil suit
against Hillard, waiving his regu-
lar fee, Mooneyham said.

“I don’t know what we’re go-
ing to ask for yet,” she said. “I’ll
have to talk to my lawyer.”

Mooneyham said ll-month-old
Jack was a gift from her sister,
who feared she would be lonely
when her two elderly Chihuahuas
died. “That’s one reason we
loved him so much, because we
knew we would still have him af-
ter they were gone,” she said.

 

 




THE NORTHSIDE NEIGHBOR - Atlanta - 10/1/86

Society’s Peolig reed Affair set for April;
event will ‘go to the dogs’ out Ritz-Carlton

The Atlanta Humane Society’s
annual Pedigreed Affair this year
will “go to the dogs.”

Set for April 10 at the Ritz-Carlton
Buckhead, the black-tie fundraiser
will feature a canine theme, with
invitations and programs decorated
with a crest and a crowned dog
holding a staff of flowers.

The ballroom will further carry
out the decorations theme with a
series of pedestals topped by elegant
dogs and surrounded by ficus trees.
A loving cup filled with flowers will
grace each table.

Music is by Peter Duchin’s Or-
chestra. Designer Bill Blass is
honorary chairman. Honorary ad-
visor is Northsider Mrs. Florence

Staff photo by Doug Hobberstad

A CAUSE FOR DOGS: Boll co-choirmon Sol Kent confers about the Fed:

with Mrs. Harvey Homff, Mrs. Sol Kent on

McDonnell.

The gala committee met recently
at the home of Northsider Mrs.
Shouky Shaheen, who is ball
chairman. Sol Kent, Rich’s fashion
director, is co-chairman.

Committee includes Northsiders
Mrs. Wesley Moran, chairman of
the host committee of “Bill Blass
and Friends;” Mrs. Robert
McClelan, secretary; Mrs. Lynn

DeVault, treasurer; Mrs. Harvey'

Hamff, invitations; Mrs. James
Miller, reservations; Mrs. Emmett
Barnes and Sally Kate Anderson,
door prizes; Gloria Lane, publicity;
Mrs. Philip Dohn and Mrs. William
Hays, program;

Marvin Gardens, Mrs. Robert
Bairsto‘w Jr., Mrs. Grady
Clinkscales, Mrs. David Forehand,
Mrs. William Michael Scaljon. Mrs.
Robert Schwarz and Mrs. John
Williams, decorations; Mrs. John 0.
Mitchell, Mrs. Lindsey Hopkins,
Mrs. Sol Kent and Mrs. Richard
Rubenoff, fundraising. Patricia
Ahlers is auxiliary president.

Committee advisors are Bill Gar-
rett, humane society director, and
Cheryl O’Donnell, catering director
of the Ritz-Carlton Buckhead.

Funds from the event will benefit
the adoption center of the new
Atlanta Humane Society Building.
Cost of the project is expected to be
$100,000.

greed Affair fundraiser

d Mrs. Grody Clinkscoles.

 




THE CALGARY,
.ALBERTA, CANADA
HERALD

9/21/86

eline
y/aw
icked

around ‘

By Carol Harrington
(Herald Brooks bureau)

Some people love cats; others
loathe them. There aren’t too
many people who have middle-
of-the-road feelings about furry
felines.

And those Albertans who grit
their teeth when cats howl in the
dead of night or pussyfoot upon
their clean vehicles may not
need to worry any longer. Their
community may soon pass a cat-
control bylaw.

The province has changed the
Municipal Government Act to
allow each community to license
cats. This means that municipal-
ities will be able to draft bylaws
making it illegal for cats to run
at large, restricting the number
of cats in each household and
imposing ﬁnes on the owners of
runaway cats; if not claimed by
their owners, they could be sold
or killed.

While Calgary prepares a
bylaw -- and anticipates a howl-
ing, scratching debate over what
measures it will contain —— other
southern Alberta centres are also
thinking about taking a kick at
the cat.

“It’s gratifying that the prov-
ince has taken a major step in
the right direction,” says Medi-
cine Hat Ald. Lee Anderson. “I
think cats must be controlled
and owners should look after
them.”

Anderson and Ryan Strader,
Red Deer’s bylaw inspection
manager, believe their cities will
soon have bylaws controlling
cats.

“It’s only a matter of time
before we have one,” Strader
says, but he isn’t sure whether
the city will be able to enforce
such a bylaw.

“How do you catch a bloody
cat?” he asks.

Lethbridge, a city that is
plagued by stray cats, thinks it
may have a solution with its
pilot project, the cat trapping
program. i

 

 

 

3;.

 

 

Carol Harrington, Calgary Herald

Cot control bylaw maybring howls of protest

Jim Anderson, manager of the
animal shelter in Lethbridge,
says the shelter loans cat traps
to residents who complain about
felines on their property. But
before anyone is given a steel
cage, animal shelter employees
survey the complainant’s neigh-
borhood and talk to ﬁve neigh-
bors to see whether a trap is
warranted.

If they determine that a prop-
erty owner is actually being
bothered by cats on his land,
then a trap -— basically a skunk
trap -— is issued and baited by a
shelter employee.

Once a cat goes into the cage,
a trap door comes down and the
locked animal is taken to the
shelter, where its owner will
have to pay an impound fee if he
wants his pet back. If a cat is at
the shelter for 72 hours, it is put
up for adoption or it may be
exterminated.

“That’s about the only way
you are going to catch them,”
Anderson says. There is a de-
mand for the program, he says,
judging by the backlog of re-
quests for the city’s 10 traps.

The program, which began
two months ago and would cost
taxpayers $21,000 per year, will
be reviewed by city council next
month for a decision whether it
should continue.

Ron Peterson, who is in
charge of animal control in Leth-
bridge, says city councillors be-
lieve the trapping program can
achieve control without a formal
bylaw that demands cats be li-
censed.

Managers of animal control
centres in Lethbridge, Red Deer
and Medicine Hat say licensing

cats would be futile. Most dogs
that are caught and taken to the
pound aren’t even licensed, and
that requirement has been
around for years.

Chris Day, manager of Medi-
cine Hat’s animal control centre,
says if cats are required to be
licensed, their owners will just
get rid of them. “Once they’re
licensed, they can’t run loose and
that’s the nature of cats.”

The real problem, says Marisa
Vig, manager of Red Deer’s
animal control centre, is that
most large communities are over-
populated with cats, particularly
stray and wild cats. And the
only solution is to urge cat
owners to sterilize their pets.

“Every single one of them
should be spayed or neutered,”
she says. “And if they aren’t
(sterlized), perhaps there should
be a higher penalty.”

Lethbridge is already doing
that. Owners of unsterilized cats
caught in cages are given heavier
ﬁnes. There’s a $50-penalty for
unsterilized captured cats but
the ﬁne is only $10 for cats that
are already fixed. If an owner
decides to neuter or spay his cat,
then $40 is refunded.

Medicine Hat loans out skunk
cages to residents who complain
about pesky cats, but if a cat is
caught and taken to the city’s
animal shelter its owner does not
have to pay a penalty to get his
pet back. But that, Ald. Ander-
son believes, will change when
the city sets a bylaw.

He estimates one will be in
place before Christmas, while
Strader says Red Deer will prob-
ably wait for other municipalities
to pass bylaws before his city
takes action.

a»

 




DALLAS MORNING NEWS - Sept. 26, 1986

 

 

 

 

DEAR aaLLAs

Pets can take

a bite out of fear
for latchkey kids

By MAGGIE KENNEDY

Dear Dallas columnist

Wednesday was Dr. Lynette Long’s day
to get home early from work to be there
when Seth, 11, and Sarah, 7, got home
from school. But the foremost authority
on latchkey children was in Dallas
‘ Wednesday afternoon, not in Bethesda,
Md., helping her children with their
homework. Her husband, Thomas, was.

“We arrange our work schedules so one
of us will be there when the children get
out of school,” said Long, an associate pro-
fessor of education at American Universi-
ty in Washington, DC, and a child psy-
chologist in private practice. Her husband
is a counselor at nearby Catholic Universi~
-ty and together they are establishing the
National Institute for Latchkey Children
and Youth.

It’s rare day that one of the Longs isn’t
at home to greet their children after
school, but if for some reason they aren’t,
Megan is. Megan is the family’s West
Highland white terrier. According to
Long, a pet, especially a dog, is much bet-
ter than an empty house.

Long believes pets can be a valuable aid
in helping latchkey children to cope and
that having a dog to return home to each

 

 

 

 

 

Lynette Long and her pet White
Highland Terrier, Megan.

day takes away much of the fear, loneli-,
ness, stress and boredom experienced by
the nearly 10 million American children
who are alone at home every weekday af-
ternoon. '

“With a pet awaiting him or her, a child
is welcomed home from school by a lov-
able guardian and protector,” she said. “A
pet can provide security for all kinds of
threats, imagined or real.

“Latchkey children are scared much of
the time,” she continued. “Their fear
could be triggered by a thunderstorm,
someone at the door, a television program,
an obscene call, a tree limb scraping the

window, a squirrel on the roof. If the child

tells you he’s never afraid, he’s not telling

, the truth. One-fourth to one—third of the

latchkey children I’ve interviewed are
frightened all the time. Some are so terri-
ﬁed, they lock themselves in one room or
hide under the bed until their Mom or
Dad arrive.”

Long’s advice for parents of latchkey

children is to get a pet, preferably a dog, if

they don’t already have one.

“A dog, big or small, provides a sense of
safety for the child,” she said. “When the
child gets home from school and opens
the‘door to ﬁnd his dog there, barking and
tail wagging, the child feels the house is
safe to enter because his dog is OK. Once
inside the house, the child feels the dog
will protect him. If the dog isn’t there as
usual, the child shouldn’t enter 1 the
house.” ' - '

A pet gives children a reason to want to
come home and feel needed, pointed out
the author of the best-selling “Handbook
for Latchkey Children and Their Parents”
and “On My Own: The Kids’ Self Care
Book.”

Long, a former high school math teach—
er and an elementary and junior high
school principal, said, “The pet can-be en-
tertainment as well as a warm fuzzy,” she
said. “It’s also been proven‘ that petting an

‘ animal reduces blood pressure, that. it’s

soothing, relaxing and provides a sense of
contentment.”

The Pets Are Wonderful (PAW) Coun-
cil, a national, nonproﬁt or:_:anization,
have developed a free kit f"? latchkey
children and their parents containing a
coloring book and safety tips. It’s available
by writing to “Pets Are Wonderful Com-
panions,” 500 N. Michigan Ave, Suite 200,
Chicago, 11]. 60611.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




HOUSTON CHRONICLE
(?@!?*¢

..._}-‘

Buster Dean / Chronicle

Patty Mercer, the new director of the SPCA, holds This and That, two adoptable gray tabbies.

SPCA job has its rewards, regrets

 

By LESLIE sowens

Houston Chronicle

 

When callers talk to Patty Mercer on the phone, they

can hear the barking of more than 200 dogs in the back-
. ground. On her desk, visitors are likely to see a cat
curled up in the mail tray. And behind her swivel chair, a

dog naps quietly.

It’s business as usual for the new director of the Soci-
ety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA).

Cabot, the cat, has the run of the building, one of
several pets adopted by the SPCA staff. Mercer rescued
Heidi, the dog, 11 years ago from a man who had been
abusing her. The dog is a good companion for Mercer
during her long hours at work on behalf of animals.

Since July it has been her job to oversee 34 employees
who work in all phases of animal protection, from kennel
maintenance to cruelty investigation. She leads three

major fund-raising drives, supervises public education -

and copes with an aging structure on Studemont in need

. of renovation.

With such administrative chores you might imagine
Mercer to be an M.B.A. type. In fact, she needs the
empathy of a therapist to deal with the strong feelings of
pet owners and staff alike. The SPCA is an emotional

place.

First, of course, the staff is saddened by the over-

whelming number of homeless pets — 25,489 of them

admitted last year. Due to lack of space and resources,

most of these animals must be euthanized, one of the
saddest jobs at the shelter.

The four animal technicians trained to inject the lethal
sodium pentobarbital rotate so they don’t spend two
successive days at the task. They have attended work-
shops to help them cope with their feelings — but Mercer
speculates they still carry grief home at night.

And that’s where the anger comes in.

“It’s a throwaway society,” she said, and her quick,

- warm smile vanishes. “Unfortunately, many peOple re-

gard pets as disposable.”

She is appalled that so many people accept euthanasia
as a solution to the problem of animal overpOpulation.
Invariably, though, she says the SPCA staff must deal
with people who are angry because there is no space for
their pet in the kennel. They want their pets adopted, not
euthanized.

Mercer says she and the SPCA staff have been called

every four-letter word in the book for telling pet owners
there’s no room at the inn. The shelter places 23 percent
of the animals it takes in, which is twice the national
average. Nonetheless, more than 16,000 animals were
euthanized last year.

Mercer says euthanasia is no answer to pet overpOpu-
lation but she believes it is the only humane treatment
for animals no one is willing to care for. She’d like to see
owners neuter their animals to prevent the overpopula-
tion that makes euthanasia necessary.

People, Mercer believes, are the guardians of the ani-
mals they have domesticated. Too often, she maintains,
they are inadequate in this role. Her stories about cruelty
and neglect are a shame to the human race.

Perhaps the most unfeeling tale is that of a woman
who brought a Persian cat into the shelter after owning
it for six years. She was remodeling her home and the cat
no longer matched the decor.

She then wanted to adopt another cat that would go
with the carpet.

The woman was turned away by the center’s adoption
counselors who do pre-adoption interviews with every-
one wanting pets. Treating animals as objects is one
cause for refusal. _ i

Mercer’s experience as a cruelty investigator has
taught her that animal problems usually are peOple
problems. They occur mostly when people treat animals
as inanimate objects, either neglecting them or abusing
them.

Parents often want to punish their children for failing
to care for pets by turning the pets in to the SPCA. Then,
two days later, she says they want to reclaim them,
saying the child has been punished enough.

“That’s punishing the pets. People don’t realize how
much their animals miss them when they leave them
here,” said Mercer. _ .

Animal abuse makes her mad — mad enough to com-
mit most of her waking hours to doing something about
it.

“I don’t have any hobbies. I’m not a great athlete. This
is it for me,” said Mercer. “I’m one of those people who
want to make a difference in the world, and this is how I
do it.”

Mercer is a natural to swap pet stories with. She has
Heidi and numerous cats, all of which have “personali-
ties.” She doesn’t think it’s the least bit quirky to treat
them as individuals. For the record, Mercer is allergic to

 

dogs, cats and horses.

 

 




 

{I

 

nson says of the golden retriever

.m £822 85. .3 wow mEh

9:93 2:3 .

 

w
m
o

 

H
3
m.
P.
If
0
m.
M
W
J
U.-
m.
m-
M
S
w
3
I
O
p
O
S
0
w
3
I
m...
U
Go
I
J
m.
,rA
w
3
e
m.
U
mm.
m-

Louie I"

I
o

avonte.

 

 




ATLANTA JOURNAL/CONSTITITION Reach for Good News - Sept. 29-30, 1986

D06 TRAINER HAS A SPECIAL PARTNER
AGAINST CRIME: JEREMJ ‘

By DAVID NORDAN
Features Writer

char ed brunette who seems possessed

of a ot of luck and the odd notion that
she can achieve almost anything if she just
keeps at it long enou h, particularly if’it has to
do with animals or poﬁce work.

And it was such single-mindedness that
landed her on a day in the gymnasium of one
of Clayton County's middle schools, where she
talked in hushed tones about destroyed lives
and overdoses.

Meanwhile, the real star of the presentation
sat quietly against a back wall, his friendly
brown eyes watching intently, his tongue loll-
ing from his mouth and his tail wagging as he
waited for his cue, the appearance of an ordi—
nary black K-9 collar, that it was time to go to
work.

Sir Jeremiah Lawman, ”Jeremy" when he is
being his regular 5-year-old go den retriever
self, is a certified, almost foolproof drug-sniff-
ing dog. In addition, he is apparently the only
one in Georgia privately owned, privately
trained and available on a nose-for-hire basis to
law enforcement agencies and rivate industry.

Ms. Benson pulls out the lack collar, and
Jeremy sticks his nose through it. Then, on
leash, he begins to sweep the big g m, where
she has hidden stashes of various kin s of drugs.

Jeanne Benson is a diminutive, super-

have ru ed that an alert from a certi-

fied drug dog is probable cause for a
more specific po ice search. .

The appearance of atennrs ball
sets him into a whirl of activity. Sir
Jeremiah is a tennis ball junkie an
will sniff out almost any ille al drug,
as well as firearms, for the c ance to
get his big jaws around the ball.
Once he has made contact, he wrll
scratch, bark, point and generally go
bananas until the alert is confirmed.
Then he sits quietly and waits for his
reward.

ln real-life raids, the prospect of
a'tennis ball reward has prom(pted
Jeremy to nose through moun s of
trash and ashes and di out a crushed
cigarette pack with t e minute re-
mains of a marijuana cigarette. He
has retrieved from a kitchen drawer a
razor blade used to break cocaine

drugs. In a real bust,,the courts

 

into lines for snorting, and “alerted" "
on a seemin ly full Coca-Cola can
With a hid en compartment and
much bigger stashes -— a total of
more than $1 million in-illegal drugs
at Hartsfield International Airport
alone. .

Humans can distinguish only one
dominant smell at a time, but dogs
can sort out many that are mingled
together. aneJeremy, working for

 

 

the federal Drug Enforcement Ad-
ministration, alerted on some lug-
gage. inside was a 20-pound garbage

ag soaked in perfume. inside that
were plastic bags buried in talcum
powder. They contained more than 2
pounds of marijuana.

Ms. Benson, 38, is a former patrol
officer in Fulton County with a back-
ground in undercover drug investi-
gations. She became intrigued by the ,
idea of working with narcotics dogs

in 1980 through an acquaintance
with Dou las County Sheriff's De—

; partment apt. W.C. ”Butch" Adams

and his minion Bandit — a drug—
sniffing black Labrador. Bandit was
killed ast Januar by an automobile.

Ms. Benson new she stood little
chance of achieving her goal with
any kind of official help. Drug dogs
are expensive — worth from $6,000
to $8,000 trained — and only about
one of 800 recruits is suitable for this
kind of schooling.

Having no dog training experio
ence, she primed herself with
months of seminars and read ever -
thing she could find about the sub-
ject. Next she tackled the odds of
finding a canine that could be

j trained. She ran through about 50,

until she found a suitable pupil, Mat-
thew, a golden retriever who she
says was ’ incredible” but whodisap—

peared, she thinks stolen bydopers.
But her luck held, and six weeks later
2-year-old Jeremy was given to her
by a Stone Mountain friend unable
to care for him. His early response to
conditioning convinced her she had
almost miraculously found a second
likely candidate.

She ran into some skepticism
trying to enroll in a canine program
at the Florida Criminal Justice Re-
gional Training Center in Orlando,
Fla., the only one in the Southeast.
She was the first woman and Jeremy
the first golden retriever to enter the
program. ”There I was, a woman with
a little happy retriever in the middle
of all those macho men and their big
German shepherds."

She calls her hard—won partner-
ship with Jeremy ”a tool which al-
lows me to do Something truly

. meaningful with my life.”

 

 

 




DEKALB NEIGHBOR - Atlanta - September 17, 1986

Spreading joy

Man's best friend visits the elderly

By Kirsten White
Neighbor Feature Editor

For the elderly in convalescent
homes, companionship is a valuable
gift from anyone willing to give it.
The Humane Society has put into
action a plan to allow those elderly
people regular visitors.

Pet therapy is the name of the
small group of pet owners and their
volunteer pets who frequent certain
nursing homes. Its success is seen in
the happy faces of the older resi-
dents of the homes, DeKalb Humane
Society Pet Therapy Coordinator
Madeline Aaronson said.

“You see their faces light up and
all the smiles around the rooms and
you know it’s worth it,” Ms.
Aaronson said.

The Humane Society Pet Therapy
program just celebrated its first
birthday in August.

The value of a pet to an elderly
person has been the topic of several
surveys and studies around the
world. All seem to show that
animals hold a strong psychological
and social place in the life of most
human beings, but especially those
of the elderly in nursing homes.

In one survey by Psychology
Today a reader wrote about her
pet,“I think I learn many things
from her, things about never losing
touch with the joy of new things,
never shutting out the smell of air or
the sound of the rain. Her unfailing
curiosity reminds me of when I was
young and the world was fresh to
me.” '

The Humane Society volunteers
sharethose feelings.

“Those people have almost no
visitors,” Ms. Aaronson said. “The
aging process leaves you with not a
lot to do. For an hour, we take our
dogs to see them. We do it to serve
them.”

Pet owners surveyed by
Psychology Today also agreed pets
were most important when one is
depressed, lonely, or upset about
someone’s illness or death.

To the elderly living alone or with,
few visitors, a pet could be a life-

extending commodity.

“It keeps our patients very had".

DY.” Jessie Notch, a nurse at
Fountainview Convalescent Center,

said. “They always want to pet them.

through Pet Therapy pregran

“I feel I’m bringing some '0

these people,” Ms. AaronsonJ shirt;J

My mother IS in a nursing home in
Ohio and I don’t get many op-
portumties to visit her, so I do what
I can here. My dog even enjoys it.

. I Just wanted to share my dog
With other people. It takes a lot of
my time, and I don’t have a lot of

tirrae, but it makes them happy,” she
sat .

It has been proven through studies
of the elderly and the young that

non-pet owners were more often

bored, depressed and sensitive than
pet owners. .

Pets are obviously a morale
booster most of all, but are also
important for social stimulation.

m;- .‘hfP’erhaps pets are not substitutes
4m" hUman contact, but (they) offer
g:$_kind of companionship which other
“human beings do not provide,”

Aaron Ketcher, associate professor
of psychiatry at the University of
Pennsylvania said in a recent in-
terview with Psychology Today.

The Humane Society tours are
done with obedience-school trained
dogs. The canines are of varying
sizes and breeds and even include
mixed pooches. The dogs must be
calm animals who are not afraid of
people and will sit and heel when
told to.

“All of the dogs walk down the
hallway together, visiting all the
rooms where the people are in-
terested in seeing them,” Ms.
Aaronson said. “Those people who

Staff photo by Brian Todtorman

lOVING ATTENTION:Charlotte Field smiles as
dog, Rags, gives full loving attention to Lidia Arnold.

and they speak to them quietly.”

It’s what happens to the patients
who see the dogs that keeps the
Humane Society volunteers coming
back to the centers.

 




don’t want to see the dogs we skip
over. The nurses show more fear of
the animals than the patients do.”

While pet ownership is a healthy
form of communication, pet visita-
tions can also help patients emo-
tionally and physically an article in
Aging Magazine said.

It has been proven that when a
person speaks to an animal their
blood pressure lowers and bodily
functions relax. Touching is also a
means of _ communication which
reduces stress. Therefore, touching
the animals calms the patients, too.

“Current concepts of appropriate
behavior for the elderly encourage
them to give up commitments such
as the commitment to a pet,”
Ketcher said. “There is a need to
emphasize a way of life
characterized by continued engage-
ment in the care of living things.

“An emphasis on the care given
may be one of the most healthy and
emotionally sound ways for organiz-
ing your life after retirement from a
permanent career,” he said.

The Humane Society is looking for
more volunteers to take the monthly
tours. '

 

Staff photo by Brian Tostorman . i ‘ . ’ i 13"" V .i K

CUTE AND FLUFFY: Chelsea a l' l d f ' . ' .
as Pg”), Brandon looks on. ’ Ive Y on rlendly dog, brightens the day of Luculle Howard, ief’r,

Staff photo by Brian Testormon

BRINGING JOY TO THE ELDERLY Juli ' ' I ' ' i
. = a Dobbins, n ht, h I .
during 0 Pet theraPY visit to Briarwood Nursing Homg. 760C es 0U? to Nancy Bonsock S conme

 




Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

October 8, 1986

Honorable Pat Swindall
Congressman from Georgia
House Office Building
Washington, DC 20515

Dear Pat:

we were on vacation for the entire month of September and
I have really gotten behind in.voicing my opinions on var-
ious Bills before Congress.

You have assured me that you are concerned for the humane '
treatment of animals. However, I am sorry that you are not
one of the sponsors of the Robert J. Mrazek HR #4871 Bill,

a bill that would prevent the seizure of animals from.pounds
to be used in research.

Why the scientific community should feel so threatened when
only 1% of the total number of animals used in research come
from.pounds is more than I can understand.

Of course, it may be that they kn w how many people are
against the use of animals in most research, especially when
other means are available. ‘We know how much money goes into
"research on animals" every year, and I am sure they will
fight to get their share of this giveaway.

The researcher must be MADE to find other means of doing re-
search; they must also be MADE to stop doing the same experi-
ments over and over and over; one reason why the Research
Mbdernization.Act should have been passed a long time ago.

This is a vote totally against pound seizure for any reason.

I hope I will hear from you that you have joined the other
42 co-sponsors of Oongressman.Mrazek's Bill.

Thank you.

Sincerely,

CMrs.) Constance F. Yarbrough
cc: HOnorable Sam Nunn, Mack Mattingly

 




Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

October 8, 1986

Honorable Sam NUnn
HOnorable Mack Mattingly
Senators from Georgia
Senate Office Building
Washington, DC 20510

Gentlemen:

Please explain to me hDW'tWO or three Senators can be
responsible for holding up action on a Bill which the
overwhelming majority of Americans want passed?

I am referring to the Endangered Species Act which was
passed by Congress several years ago, at the urging of
the American people, particularly those experts who
knew of the dangers of extinction for so many animals
and plants in our country.

We need to protect those species in particular who are

in danger of extinction, regardless of where they are.
This is what the people want - all the people - not

just those in the states where these creatures and plants
may be found.

I urge you to do all you can to see that the roadblocks
to passing the Endangered Species Act are removed.

I am surprised that anyone would suggest the hunting of
grizzlies in the lower 48 states. I have been reading
of nothing but the limited numbers to be found in our
western states. They should not be hunted.

I see no reason why wolves should not be re-introduced
into Yellowstone National Park. The only other state
with the wolf is Minnesota, and they are in the far
northern part of the state.

Sincerely,

(Mrs.) Constance F. Yarbrough /// j j,
cc: Honorable Pat Swindalljﬂaﬂwuk4’ﬂﬂgéﬁw

 




Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

October 8, 1986

Honorable Sam NUnn
Honorable Nbck.Mattingly
Senators from Georgia
SenategOffice Bldg.
Washington, DC 20510

Gentlemen:

It seems to me I have written reams of mail re the wild horse sit-
uation in our country. I know I have written to both_of you many
times stating my objections to the selling of these animals to
slaughterhouses.

N0w once again it seems I must again write stating my objections
to the killing of these animals who are very definitely a part of
our heritage, and the areas in which they are found.

I keep reading of how many there are; how they are destroying the
land with their overgrazing.’ First, my.husband. and I have made
many trips throughout our magnificent west, and we have yet to see
one wild horse, let along herds of them. .Also, I believe you know
full well there are enough statistics to PROVE that it is cattle
and sheep overgrazing which is ruining the land - not the wild
horses.

Also, these animals are grazing on PUBLIC LAND. It does not belong
to the cattleman or the sheepman; it belongs to all Americans, and
I believe you have received enough mail - as has Congress - sup-
porting the right of these horses to stay on the land.

I hope both of you will offer an amendment to the Interior Appro-
priations bill removing $5.3 million dollars from the Wild Horse
and Burro Management Appropriations when this bill comes to the
floor. It is ridiculous to continue to remove wild horses from

the range by the thousands while thousands already removed have not
yet been adopted. From what I have been reading, these animals can
and will be adopted if given some time.

Sincerely,

(Mrs.) Constance F. Yarbrough
cc: Honorable Pat Swindall

 




Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

October 8, 1986

Henorable George W. Darden
Congressman from Georgia_
House Office Building
Washington, DC 20515

Dear Congreeman Darden:

Since I have been on vacation, and only returned a week ago, I had
not had a chance to learn of HR 103, introduced.by Bill Emerson of
Nﬁssouri, to allow trapping to continue in the Ozarks National
Scenic Riverways in.Nﬁssouri.

It has always been my understanding that our National Parks, Mbnu-
ments, Scenic areas, etc. were set aside by our Congress - at the
request and desires of the overwhelming number of American people -
to protect the areas and the wildlife within from.hunting, trapping,
or any other kind of harrassment.

Personally, I am getting fed up with this constant having to fight
to protect what the people want — not what a few minorities want.

There is no excuse, rhyme, nor reason for any disturbance of wild-
life within these protected areas.

To state that this is a way of life for some people is to go back
to the early times of this country when it was also a way of life
for children to work in the mills of our country. Slavery was also
a way of life in.America. Do we go back to these atrocities too?

Let's set it clear once and for all in our Congress that the people
of America want their protected areas truly "protected" from.all
killing of our wildlife.

I hope I am not too late, and I hope that this HR Bill 103 will be
tabled, shelved, thrown.in the round file for all time.

Sincerely,

(Mrs.) Constance F. Yarbrough
cc: Honorable Sam Nunn, Mack Mattingly, Pat Swindall

 




Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King.Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

October 8, 1986

The Honorable Ronald Reagan
The President

The White House

washington, DC 20500

Dear Mr. President

It seems strange to me that the National Institutes of Health_is
not accountable to you and Congress for its actions. This con-
clusion is reached by reading that despite an overwhelming number
of letters from.members of Congress and no one knows how many from
the general public that the Silver Spring primates be sent to Pri-
marily for Primates in Texas, the NIH stealthily by night, sent
these unfortunate animals to the Delta Regional Primate Center in
Louisiana.

Tb me this is the same as saying you and Congress and the people
can go fly a kite as far as the NIH is concerned.

Sending these unfortunate animals to the Delta Regional Primate

Center in La. and doing it under cover of darkness, is unforgive-
‘able, and the NIH should be MADE to remove the primates, and send
them to Primarily for Primates in Texas. The individuals respon—
sible for this reprehensible action should be fired.

Does NIH believe it is accountable to no one? Do the people of
America no longer have a say in how their tax dollars are being
spent?

. Why I please hear from you as to what action is now being taken
to see that these primates are being removed from.the Delta Re-
search Center? '

Thank.you.

Sincerely,

CMrs.) Constance F. Yarbrough _
cc: Honorable Sam_NUnn, Mack Mattingly, Pat Swindall

 




.: ‘ a" a j: ~
.' *- ‘. '- , _'-
‘. . . t . ~ , »
~ 5
. ‘3‘ .- ‘ ’ .
' ”:4 - “’9'
3.3 .‘ ”E '
55%: I u; .
.1?» f ‘ ~
1 K

For

est Service’s
Peterson: The
old days are gone

U. S. NEWS 6 WORLD REPORT - Oct. 6, 1986

.é--:ri-ii¥fHORIZONS :ifvrr __

The Reagan administration wants to let loggers double the take
from the national forests by the year 2030. Environmentalists warn of
disaster. One of the prime worries: America’s largest rain forest

crying timber in
the federal forests

I The native Indians living along Alas-
ka’s lush southeastern panhandle speak
of the vast stretch of spruce and hem-
lock by its ancestral name: Tongass.
The 50,000 square miles of rain forest,
the biggest of the 155 national forests,
is largely as it was a hundred years ago.
Trees and brush grow so densely in
spots that, in the words of one ranger
guide, “Even a jackrabbit barely has
room to scamper.”

But change may be coming to the
Tongass and to the nation’s other na-
tional forests. They have become a bat-
tleground in a dispute over Reagan ad-
ministration intentions to “capture the
potential” of federal timberlands. A
plan released September 19 allows log-
gers to harvest up to 20 billion board
feet annually by the year 2030, nearly
double the current total.

The change is necessary, the adminis—
tration argues, to meet a growing popu—
lation’s needs for building materials, pa-
per products and fuel.
Timber ﬁrms, conserva-
tionists and federal ofﬁ-
cials disagree vehemently
over the forecast and
what the plan might
mean for the future of the
national forests, which
cover roughly 8 percent
of the nation. The compe-
tition to use these lands,
particularly for recrea-
tion, grows every year.

Critics of the plan
worry that it might
wreck the delicate eco-
systems of the national
forests. Erosion from stream banks, for
example, can kill large numbers of ﬁsh,
which then cannot spawn in sufﬁcient
numbers to maintain their population.
Insects the ﬁsh prey upon then multi-
ply explosively, decimating the trees.

Building-industry executives say
boosting the timber take is a matter of
economics. Imports and the 409 million
acres of privately held timberland, they
argue, won’t be able to ﬁll the gap
between current supply and rising de-
mand, especially for softwoods used in

BOIAHBS lSElHUd ’8’

new homes. “We’ve relied
heavily on imported lumber
to meet demand for new
housing starts,” says Mark
Rey, vice president at the Na-
tional Forest Products Asso-
ciation, a Washington, DC,
trade group. “Eventually, we
will have no choice but to
harvest more from the federal forests.”
No preserve better embodies the con-
ﬂict between free enterprise and ecologi-
cal sanctity than the Tongass. It provides
a haven for 450 species of wildlife, in-
cludin g the Sitka black-tailed deer. Some
of the forest’s Spruces are 800 years old,
10 feet in diameter and more than 200
feet high. Their close-grained and blem-
ish-free wood makes perfect piano
sounding boards. Only 17,000 of the
Tongass’s nearly 17 million acres are
logged each year, but some of the gar-
gantuan trunks taken could each provide
the lumber for a four-bedroom house.
As one of the few remaining
“old growth” rain forests of

MATTHEW DONOHOE—ALASKAPHOTO

ngass ,

National L :2;
Forest =
i591?!

 

 

the Paciﬁc Northwest, the
Tongass is a magnet for scien-
tists who see it as a living
laboratory. Trees and plant
life that die and rot on the
forest ﬂoor over centuries re-
plenish the soil and nourish
fungi that nurture seedlings.
“Timber mining,” as conser-
vationists refer disparagingly
to modern clear-cutting tech-
niques, means near-certain
death for old-growth forests.
But land-use planners at the

 

 

,' _ Tihibei offere
L from national forests

 

 

L

"for sale -

 

Proposed

 

 

 

 

 

Agriculture Department’s
Forest Service, as well as at

1975 '76 77 '78 '79 ’80 '31 "82 ’83 ’84 ’85 ’86
siusrvawn—easic data; us. ForestService (951-)

 

the Interior Department’s
Bureau of Land Management
and the Environmental Pro-

Four fifths of the timber from national forests goes
into construction. High interest rates and home prices
have kept demand down for 25 years. Will this change?

 

tection Agency, insist that
forest supervision has
changed dramatically in the past 20
years and that new technologies and
environmental controls allow the land to
be logged without being destroyed.
Clear-cut areas in national forests,
for example, are now restricted in size
and must be contoured to the terrain.

 

Some dead trees are left standing, and
fallen logs and other undergrowth are
left to provide moisture, food and hous-
ing for forest plants and animals. No
longer are “tree farms”——clear-cut ar-
eas planted with seedlings—replanted
with a single species of conifer that can

1990 2000 2030

 

 

 




Unloading logs at mlliniAIaska s Tongass

vice,” he says, “has simply not carried
out the congressional directives to re-
form past abuses such as clear—cutting.”

A 1985 memo proposing to double
or triple the timber harvest from the
national forests foreshadowed the cur-
rent plan. The 191 million acres in the
national forests are worth at least $100
billion, noted John Crowell, then assis-
tant secretary of agriculture in charge
of national forests, adding that “from
an economic standpoint, these trees are
doing nothing but standing there rot-
ting. We could get more value by cut-
ting them down and growing a new
crop.” Crowell’s former employer,
Louisiana Paciﬁc, has been doing just
that in the Tongass. The company has
been logging there anti running a pulp-
wood mill in Ketchikan since 1954.
U.S. pays for the roads

To environmentalists protective of
the Tongass forest, the proposal to in-
crease timber production would worsen
a bad situation. Besides allowing log-
gers to take up to 4.5 billion board feet
per decade from the Tongass, the For-
est Service spends up to $40 million a
year on logging roads. Environmental-
ists also complain that the Forest Ser-
vice is selling trees centuries old for a
handful of dollars. Loggers in the Ton-
gass pay an average of $3 to $4 per
1,000 board feet of spruce, hemlock
and other trees, compared with $200
for Douglas ﬁr taken from the national
forests in the Paciﬁc Northwest. Forest
Service ofﬁcials counter that they are
only obeying the mandate of the 1980
Alaska Land Act by promot-
ing southeast Alaska’s tim-

 

 

' mum THE NATIONAL FORESTS

ber economy.

“Only 10 percent of the
Tongass will be harvested
over the next 100 years,” says
Mike Barton, forester for the
Itineau region. “We could.
produce 1 biliion board feet of
timber annually from the
Tongass, but it wouldn’t be
good land management.”

The administration‘s plan
strikes a “judicious balance”
between commercial and en-
vironmental concerns, insist-
ed Forest Service chief R.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Xbbut one third of the 19

be wiped out by an epidemic of root rot.
Conservationists like Peter Kirby, an
ecologist for the Wilderness Society, a
Washington, D.C.-based environmental
lobby, complain that the Forest Service
has done little to push loggers to follow
the government’s techniques. “The ser—

1 million acres of national forest
can be reached only by trail; 17 million acres are virgin
wilderness. Loggers had access to 80 million acres in 1986.

Max Peterson at recent con-
gressional hearings. “There
is not enough land left to
_— give everyone what they
want,” he said. “This coun-

try used to have a tremendous land
base, with 1,000 acres for every person.
If a person heard somebody’s dog bark,
that other person was too close. But
those days are gone forever.” I

//
by Stanley N. Wellborn with Muriel Dobbin in Juneau

 

 

Grassy plots in
the woods

The national forests—parts of
them, at least—are going to pot.
Marijuana growers have planted
crops deep within the £0333“: and
booby-trapped their plots with
attack dogs, pipe bombs and land
mines. In California, a ranger
was shot, two guard stations in
the Shasta-Trinity National For-
est near Redding were burned
and rangers had to enlist local
police to pursue pot farmers over
a 40,000—acre area. To protect
innocent visitors to U.S. forests,
the Agriculture Department has
closed public access to 946,000
acres around the illicit gardens.

The Forest Service has asked
Congress to authorize rangers
to arrest suspects, carry ﬁre-
arms and conduct searches
without warrants. George Dun-
lop, assistant secretary of agri-
culture ‘in charge of federal for-
ests, says the new powers would
“assure that any activity is done
consistent with our forest-man—
agement role, so we don’t turn
Smokey the Bear into a law-
enforcement agent.”

Officials at the Justice De-
partment’s Drug Enforcement
Administration say the gin-wing
appeal of remote wilderness ar—
eas may stem from stepped-up
efforts to curb the ﬂow of pot
into the United States. The
DEA reported September 25
that marijuana is being cultivat-
ed in every national forest.
Since 1980, USDA agents have
eradicated 2,692 marijuana

lots in federal forests, and in
1985 federal agents trashed 30
percent more pot acreage than
the year before. Rangers say
they aren’t satisﬁed. They want
the go-ahead to chase “pot pi-
rates” outside forest boundaries
and conduct dragnet searches of
marijuana-infested timberlands.

 

 

 




FT. LAUDERDALE SUN-SENTINEL — Sept. 22, 1986

Species in rain forests

United Press International

WASHINGTON — Mankind is
destroying the world’s forests so rapidly
that most of them will be gone in the
next century, taking with them hun-
dreds of thousands of species of ex-
traordinary biological diversity, a Har-
vard professor warned Sunday.

Edward Wilson said the current re-
duction of diversity of life “seems des-
trned to approach that of the great natu-
ral catastrophes,” like the one in which
drnosaurs and many other life forms
disappeared 65 million years ago.

“In at least one important respect the
modern episode exceeds anything in the
geological past,” he said in a lecture

prepared for the opening of a National
Forum on Biodiversity.

“.In the earlier mass extinctions
which some scientists believe were
caused by large meteorite strikes, most
of the plants survived even though ani-
mal diversity was severely reduced.
Now, [for] the first time, plant diversity
lS declining sharply.”

Wilson said each species of insect,
plant and vertebrate is the repository of
an immense amount of genetic informa-
tion, which could be valuable not only to
scrence, but to the health and welfare of
Earth’s burgeoning population of hu-
mans. '

“In the end, the loss of diversity is a

moral question that affects not only our
long-term future, but the way we view
ourselves as a species,” he said.

Wilson, professor of science at Har-
vard’s Museum of Comparative Biolo-
gy, said tropical rain forests are of pri-
mary concern. Although they cover only
7 percent of the globe’s surface, they
harbor half of the world’s species.

“Despite their extraordinary rich-
ness, tropical rain forests are among
the most fragile of all habitats,” he said.

The UN. Environmental Program
and the Food and Health Organization
have estimated that 23,000 square miles
of tropical forest —— about the size of
West Virginia ." are being cleared or

converted to farm lands each year. ' .

If that clearing continues, he said all
remaining rain forests will be either
cleared or seriously disturbed by the
year 2135. Wilson said this estimate is
probably too conservative because pOp-
ulation pressures in the Third World
will continue to accelerate deforesta-
tion in coming decades.

“No precrse estimate can be mad
the numbers of species being exctzircif
gurshed in the rain forests or in other
major habitats for the simple reason
that we do not know the numbers of s
cres originally present,” he said.

Wilson said between 1.6 million and

1.7 million living species of all kinds of
organisms have been described.

INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE - Sept. 30, 1986

Plan to Harvest Timber
In Puerto Rico Assailed

By Philip Shabecoff
New York Times Service
WASHINGTON — The people
of Puerto Rico know the Caribbean

. National Forest as el Yunque, the
. Anvil. It is the only tropical rain

forest in the US. forest system, and
environmentalists and scientists
have angrily protested a plan call-
ing for more than one-fifth of its
30,000 acres (about 12,000 hect-
ares) to be harvested for timber
over the next 45 years.

Francisco Javier Blanco, execu-
tive director of the Puerto Rican
Conservation Trust, predicted that
such a harvest in the fragile ecosys-
tem would cause “serious environ-
mental problems,” altering rainfall
patterns and wiping out endan-
gered species, such as the Puerto
Rican parrot. The only reason for
the plan, he charged, is the Reagan
administration’s policy of increas-
ing timber production from nation-
al forests.

Terry T enold, the Forest Service
planning officer in Puerto Rico,
said that only areas cut in the past
for charcoal would be harvested,
and that the wood was needed for
the Puerto Rican economy.

The Forest Service is under fire
for many similar, recently pub-

lished plans, all required by the .

National Forest Management Act
of 1976. The plans often call for
sharply increased timber harvests,
new roads into virgin areas and
expanded grazing, mining and oil
drilling activity.

The plans are frequently at-
tacked by conservation or hunting
organizations, citizen groups and
others who see their interests
threatened.

Critics such as Peter Kirby, a
forest expert for the Wilderness So-
ciety, said the plans would inflict a

heavy toll on- the wildlife, water
quality and recreation in the forests
while providing taxpayer-subm-
dized windfalls to industry.
Officials suchas Everett L.
Towle, director of land manage-
ment planning for the Forest Ser-

ivice, contend that the plans Will

provide vital wood and other com-
modities while insunng that the
forests serve the needs of all Amen-

cans. ‘
Last week the Forest Semce re-
leased long-range plans that envrs-
age a doubling of the timber cut to
20 billion board feet (about 7 bil-
licn meters) and the construction
of hundreds of thousands of miles
of logging roads by 2030.
Meanwhile, conservation groups
appealed a plan to double timber
production in the million-acre
George Washington National For-

est in Virginia and West Virginia,
which is heavily used for recreation
and provides crucial habitat for an-
imals such as the black bear. The
conservationists estimate that the
forest will return only 10 cents on
every dollar spent to prepare
timber sales. . _

Perhaps the most intensely criti-
cized program is one dictated large-
ly by Congress for the 17 milhon—
acre Tongass National Forest,
which sprawls across southeastern
Alaska. The Alaska National Inter-
est Lands Conservation Act of 1980
permits the Forest Service to spend
$40 million a year to harvest 4.5
billion board feet of timber there
over the next decade, most of which
will be sold to Japan as pulp.

Critics called the plan a travesty
that is losing the government mon-
ey while destroying much of the
last remaining old growth rain for-
est in the United States.

 

il\

4
h

V;

e
1

s

'r

’9

>

W

I .«EFI'g, $9.

 




 

NEW YORK TIMES - Sept. 28, 1986

Cutting Into
National Forests

 

By PHILIP SHABECOFF

 

WASHINGTON

people of Puerto Rico

know the 30,000-acre Carib—

bean National Forest as el

, Yunque, the Anvil. It is the

only tropical rain forest in the na-

tional forest system, and environ-

mentalists and scientists have pro-

tested angrily against a recently un-

veiled Forest Service plan calling for

‘ more than one-fifth of its acreage to

be harvested for timber over the
next 45 years.

Francisco Javier Blanco, execu-
tive director of the Puerto Rican
Conservation Trust, predicted that
such a harvest in the fragile ecosys-
tem would cause “serious environ-
mental problems,” altering rainfall
patterns and wiping out endangered
species, such as the Puerto Rican
parrot. The only reason for the plan,
he charged, is the Reagan Adminis-
tration’s policy of increasing timber
production from national forests.

Terry Tenold, the Forest Service
planning officer in Puerto Rico, said
that only areas cut in the past for
charcoal would be harvested, and
that the wood was needed for the
Puerto Rican economy.

The Forest Service is under fire
for many similar, recently published
plans, all required by the National
Forest Management Act of 1976. The
,‘rplans often call for sharply in-
’creased timber harvests, new roads
tinto virgin areas and expanded graz-,
ing, mining and oil drilling activity.

The plans are frequently attacked

by conservation or hunting organiza—
tions, citizens’ groups and others
who see their interests threatened.
‘ Critics such as Peter Kirby, a for-
est expert for the Wilderness Soci-
ety, say the plans will inflict a heavy
toll on the wildlife, water quality and
:recreational potential of the forests
while providing taxpayer-subsidized
windfalls to industry.

Officials such as Everett L. Towle,

director of land management plan-
ning for the Forest Service, reply
that the plans will provide vital wood
and other commodities while i'nsur-t
ing that the forests serve the needs
of all Americans.
Last week the Forest. Servite re-
leased long-range plans that envis-
age a doubling of the timber cut: to 20
billion board feet and the construc-
tion of hundreds of thousands of
miles of logging roads by 2030.
.Meanwhile, conservation groups
appealed a plan to double timber
production in the million-acre
George Washington National Forest
in Virginia and West Virginia, which
is heavily used for recreation and
provides crucial habitat for animals
such as the black bear. The conser—
vationists estimate that the forest
will return only 10 cents on every
Federal dollar spent to prepare tim—
ber sales. *5
Stephen Parsons, planning officer
for the forest, said such estimates
did not reflect other benefits, such as
improved wildlife habitat and better
access to the forest. jj
“It is not a black and white issue,”
he said.
Perhaps the most intensely, criti-
cized program is one diCtated
largely by Congress for the 17 mil—
lion-acre Tongass National Forest,
which sprawls across southeastern
Alaska. The Alaska Nationalwlnter-
est Lands Conservation Act Of 1980
permits the Forest Service tospend
$40 million a year to harvest 3.5 bil-
lion board feet of timber there over

the next decade, most of which will

be sold to Japan as pulp. _,
Critics call the plan a travesty that
is losing the Federal: government
money while destroying much‘of the
last remaining old growth rainforest
in the United States. ’f’.
Forest Service and industry
spokesmen say the Tongass pro-
gram is necessary to support the
economy of southeastern Alaska and

insist that it will not cause lasting

damage to the environment. 7.

39%
270/0
21 °/o
21 °/o
20%
18%
15% '
15°/o
1470
12%

Source: US. Forest Service

. California '
Montana

Wyoming
New Mexico

s; States with largest National Forest areas

National Forests
as percent of
state area

Total acres
(in millions)

2O
16
14

9
2O
17

 




the world." Many native species
are dying off, he says. because
they are losing their forest habi—
tat.‘ .

To'scientists, Hawaii is one of
the world’s unique and wondrous

places. Evolution there, they said, _

is even more vividly demonstrated
than on the Galapagos islands.
where Darwin found his famous
collection of finches that reflected
in their varying beak shapes the
forces of natural selection at
work.

“This is one of the most magni—
ficent places to study evolutionary
biology," Jordan said. Relatively
few families of plants and animals
reached the isolated islands, he
said, but those that did gave rise
to many species found nowhere
else.

Ninety-nine percent of native
animals and 95 percent of plants
are fdund only in Hawaii, accord-
ing to Jim Jacobi, a US Fish and
Wildlife Service botanist. But be-
cause of habitat loss, competition
from introduced plant species or

destruction by introduced animals ’

such as pigs, many have van-
ished. -

Of 57 native bird species, he
said. 23 are extinct and 23 are en-
dangered and facing extinction.
While the 3000 native plants are
faring somewhat better, Jacobi
said, 270 have died out and 800
are candidates for the federal en-
dangered species list. .

States owns much of forest

By Jacobi’s estimates, the state
controls the larger part .of Ha—
waii’s remaining rain forest. An-
other fairly large chunk remains
in private hands and only about 5
percent has federal protection. in
five years, The Nature Conservan-
cy has put 20,000 acres of rain
forest under private protection.

The rain forest recently
chipped for electricity was on pri—
vate land owned by the Campbell
Estate, one of the state’s large

landowners. This virgin. tract,.

zoned for agriculture under the
state's land use plan, was of par—
ticular. ecological value, according
to Dieter Mueller—Dombois, a for—
est specialist at the University of
Hawaii, because little lowland
rain forest remains in Hawaii and
because much of it was free non-
native species. The chipping
stopped only when the company
leasing the land and doing the cut-
ting went bankrupt, saidMueller—
Dombois. ' . ' .

“it took us by surprise that
this was tropical rain forest,” said
‘Oswald Stender of the Campbell
Estate, adding it never occurred to
the firm that it might be ecologi—
cally valuable.

 

 

State’s track record

Rain forests under state con-
trol aren’t faring very well either,

said Nelson Ho of the Sierra Club, 4 -. M

because the state has “a poor
track record” for natural re~
sources protection.

While Hawaii has established
80,000 acres as natural. area re
serves to protect important native
ecosystems, Gagne says these are
“still just paper parks." Allan
Marmelstein, Pacific islands ad-
ministrator for the US Fish and
Wildlife Service, noted that the
state hasn't “yet set aside much
money for management,” adding
this is a critical in Hawaii because
of the never—ending battle against
non—native species. “Pigs are in
the process of, if not destroying.
severely altering the composition
of the native forest."

The state’s deputy director for
Land and Natural Resources, Ed-
gar Hamasu, said state manage-
ment includes an open season on
pigs and fences around fragile
areas. But, he noted, “hunters
want to have some feral pig popu-
lation."

Management “takes money,”
he said. “i think we could use a lot
of money from the federal govern-
ment. The state is limited in rev-
enues and there are all kinds of
other priorities.

Forest is consid-

ered vital to en'-
dangered Puerto
Rican parrot. Bej

low. the forest

after chipper .
2... went through. '

 

 

“Environmentalists aren’t the
only citizens here,” Hamasu con-
tinued. ”We can’t just have a pris-
tine environment.” One of the ma-

jor concerns of the legislature is
creating jobs, he said, in defend-
; ing the permitting of geothermal
:development in conservation
zones.

“There’s very low conscious-

: ness about the need to protect na- '

tive forests," says Lockwood, voic—
ing a view shared by many con-

 

; servationists. “And if it comes to a

crunch between the environment
and development, they give in to
development."

Doing a better job in Hawaii, he
says, is not only important for the

‘ islands but for US credibility

when it tries to promote the pro-
tection of rain forests and biodi—
versity elsewhere,_1‘_We should
make sure our own house is in or-
der before we lecture the rest of
the world."

 




SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE
Aug. 20, 1986

Ozone Pollution
Hurts Trees in 3
National Parks

Fresno

Ozone pollution is damag-
ing more than half the trees in
Yosemite National Park and al~
most 90 percent in Sequoia and
Kings Canyon national parks.
pollution experts reported yes-
terday.

Although the number of trees
affected has doubled in the past. five
years, the amount of damage re.
mains “slight. to moderate,” accord-
ing to James Bennett, director of
the National Parks Service’s biologi- i
cal effects research program in Col- '
orado.

Bennett. said ozone levels last
summer were so high that Sequoxa
National Park, 100 miles south of

Yosemite, “must now be considered '

technically to be in noncompliance“
with federal air quality standards.

and the California Air Resources
Board.

Ozone pollution is caused by
cars, power plants and industries
that burn fossil fuels. The report on
air pollution damage came after
predictions reported in The Chroni-
cle on Monday that root rot will
eventually kill off nearly all pine
and cedar in Yosemite Valley.

Ozone pollution from industrial
and car pollution has caused up to
58 percent of the pine and oak trees
in Yosemite to lose foliage, although
Bennett. said the damage represents
only 5 percent of the total foliage.

ln Sequoia and Kings Canyon
national parks. the number of pines
damaged by ozone has almost dou-
bled since 1980 from 48 percent to
87 percent, Bennett said. About, 7
percent of the total foliage is being
affect ed.

gin-(primed I'm-u

BOSTON GLOBE - Aug. 25, 1986

ECOLOGY

Critics say US failing
to pretect its rain forests

Destruction in Puerto Rico, Hawaii sends wrong message, they say

By Dianne Dumanoski
Globe Staff

onservationists and tropical biolo-

gists in Hawaii and Puerto Rico say

the United States is countenancing

destructive practices in its own rem-

nant rain forests even as it pressures
foreign governments to protect their tropical rain
forests. -

In one instance, the federal government is ac-
tively promoting commercial logging in part of
Puerto Rico’s famous but tiny El Yunque rain for-
est, a practice critics say won’t send the right
message to other countries.

Such actions are ironic, at the very least, crit-
ics say, at a time when the United States is press-
ing the World Bank to reject projects that will de—
stroy rain forests in developing countries and
Congress is considering earmarking $10 million
in foreign aid to help protect biological diversity
elsewhere. _ ’ .

“The media suggests it’s those third world
countries that are destroying the rain forests,"

ll ) id 1 j. ‘ says John Lockwood, of Friends of Hawaii‘s For—

e commc nte ruling a con. ests. “But the truth is. we’re doing the same
ference on air pollution effects on
the state's forests and crops spon~

sored by Fresno State University .

thing and our resources are much smaller.
Inﬂawaii in the last two years, about 1200

acres of rare lowland rain forest was cut and

chipped to feed a power plant... The state recentlv

amended its land—use law to allow geothermal de-
velopment in conservation zones that, critics say,
contain much of the best remaining forests.

Conservationists also say that the state,
which oversees the majority of the remaining for-
ests, is doing little to control roving wild pigs.
goats and sheep, which pose a more insidious but
equally important threat. Introduced to Hawaii
by settlers, these species are wreaking havoc in
rain forest ecosystems, which are particularly
vulnerable because they evolved without the
pressure of land mammals.

In Puerto Rico, a coalition of Puerto Rican and
national environmental groups has challenged

the US Forest Service plan to" start commercial
logging in the tiny Carribean National Forest .—
the only tropical forest in the national forest sys-
tem. The appeal is pending before the Forest Ser-
vice.

Logging is not being proposed for virgin tracts.
officials counter; only in previously logged areas.
But Carl Jordan, a tropical forest specialist at the
University of Georgia, says this secondary forest
is vital to efforts to bring back the endangered
Puerto Rican boa and Puerto Rican parrot.

Terry Tenold, the planner for the forest, de—
fended the proposed‘ logging on 21 percent of the
forest, saying it is part of an effort to demonstrate

wnmm'r DA Ge 33

3 tropical forest management
and will in the long run help pre-
serve rain forests in Latin Amer~
.iea. “Not everybody has the luxu—
gry of being able to lock up their
forest. We hope to show proper
practices in using the forest in a
S'non-destructive manner.”

_, Critics don"t quarrel with this
goal, but they question the agen-
Lcy's approach, saying it is unsci-
entific and uneconomical and will
offer no valuable lesson to Latin
American neighbors. “If you’re go-
ing to teach the world lessons

" about tropical sylvaculture, you

had better start out with a good

' data base and make plans careful-

ly,” said William E. Mankin of the

‘ Sierra Club’s International Com—

mittee. This hasn't been done, he

7 said. .

‘3. Tenold responds that the forest
service would “never move for—

. ward if we waited until we had all

the answers."

In Jordan's analysis, the log
ging will cost the government
more than the timber is worth.

Third world countries, Jordan
,1 says, need forestry methods that

provide a sustained yield and

. make a profit. The plan, he said,
didn’t address economics.

If the logging operation loses
money at first, Tenold replies, it

will make money “in the long
rrun.”

Why log, Jordan asks, when

; Puerto Rice has only a few square

miles of rain forest left? The bot—

‘ tom line, he said, is that through

the Forest Service “the US taxpay-
er will be subsidizing the destruc-
tion of this forest. It's completely
outrageous.”

Native species dying off

Hawaii conservationists say
saving rain forests is urgent. In
the words of Wayne Gagne of the
Hawaiian chapter of Sierra Club.
“Hawaii is the endangered species
capital of the United States, if not

 




 

GRIT

GRIT October 12-18, 1986

Oct. 12-18, 1986

feacher Leaves Pupils With Little to Squawk About

By JANICE ARENOFSKY

HEN Nadine Ebel-

ing of Mesa, Ariz.,

says her life is for the

birds, she really
means it, but in the best possible
way. A teacher of bird etiquette,
Ebeling spends many hours each
week with beautifully colored,
expensive, and often rare par-
rots. Using techniques based on
love and praise, the self-
proclaimed “behavior adjuster”
transforms birds that chew, bite,
or screech into caring members
of the family.

Over the last six years, Ebeling

' has shaped the behaviors of hun-

——Photo by Jiance Ares
Nadine Ebeling Works With Harvey, a Star Pupil

. -. up their bad manners.”

 

dreds of macaws, molluccans,

and amazons. She usually trains
each bird for two to three weeks
or until the animal stops misbe-
having and obeys certain com-
mands, like kissing, stepping

onto a person’s arm, and cud-

dling.

“Birds are very affectionate
animals,” says Ebeling. “Once
they learn they’re safe, they give
For
instance, according to Ebeling,
parrots need to squawk, but they
can learn to do so at the least

— disruptive times —- when owners
. aren’t at home or when they’re

doing noisy chores like vacuum-
ing.

Ebeling’ 5 interest in birds
began back in Minnesota. As a
youngster, she developed severe
allergies that prevented her from
owning a cat or a dog. So she
devoted herself to small birds,
especially parakeets.

But not until she moved to Ari-
zona’s warm climate did she
start handling large parrots.
Most of her techniques come
from 25 years experience with
birds, although she maintains a
small library and regularly
attends workshops.

BY PLACING the trainees on
T-stands in her den, Ebeling
quickly accustoms the birds to
typical family life, which for her
means a husband and two teen-
aged children. She works alone,
except for two pets — Harvey, a
blue and gold macaw, and Chimi,
a yellow . The birds function as
role models, teaching the trai-
nees that there’s nothing to fear
from human contact.

“Birds are intelligent,” says
Ebeling. “They’re capable of log-
ical thinking and deliberate
movements.”

Most of Ebeling’s clients come
from the Southwest —- Arizona,
California, and Texas — but she

frequently consults by telephone
or letter with bird owners from
all over the United States. Cur-
rently, she’ 5 writing a book for
people with problem parrots. _'

Ebeling also helps local pet
shop owners train their ornamen-
tal parrots. “Shop owners must
be able to trust their birds,” says
Ebeling. “If a young child teases
a large bird like a macaw —-— by
pulling the bird’s tail feathers or
by moving too quickly — that bird
better be trained to release its
anger by squawking and not by
biting. The down-pressure of a
macaw’s beak could easily sever
a child’s finger!

“I like the satisfaction of
accomplishing what seems
impossible,” Ebeling continues.
“Making a wild animal into a
companion is what I get paid to
do. It’s also what I enjoy.”

 




NATIONAL ENQUIRER - October 14, 1986

 

 

 

 

Everybody needs a iittle love -— and this
cute dolphin is no exception. Incred-
ibly, his affectionate friend is a gigantic
killer whale — and in the wild, these

 

 

"r< . . . .,.. ,. -.....,...V.,.. , ........,.»... .

   

two creatures are natural enemies. But
at the aquati-z: mammal display at Sea
World in Orlando, Fla., they’re just like
kissing cousins.

 

 

 




training session, it is simply
run through the grisly proce-
dure again and again.

“They’re used over and
over until they are dead or
so maimed they can’t be used
anymore,” Baker revealed.
“Then they are simply
thrown in a trash can or pile.

“If they’re lucky the
trainer may slam their head
against a fence or kick them
in the head to put them out
of their misery.

“Every year up to a half-
million small animals are
torn apart alive in grey-
hound training —- up to 10
live animals for each dog.”

And nationwide there are
about 48 greyhound racing
tracks in 14 states: Oregon,
South Dakota, Colorado, Ari-
zona, Arkansas, Iowa, West
Virginia, Alabama, Florida,
Rhode Island, Connecticut,
Massachusetts, New Hamp-
=shire and Vermont.

And within the next year
Kansas, Illinois, Pennsylva-
nia,‘Wisconsin and Missouri
may approve dog racetracks.
It will mean millions of dol-

 

untold suffering for the
sport’s helpless victims.

“These barbaric atrocities
are absolutely shocking and
horrifying,” said Rep. Rob-
ert K. Dornan (R.-Calif.). “It
is scandalous that such vi-
cious cruelty against inno.
cent animals goes on in
America.

“It makes my heart sick to
think that hundreds of thou-
sands of these poor crea-
tures are brutally and pain-
fully-murdered every year
in the name of dog racing.
All decent Americans should
be outraged.

“I have introduced in Con-
gress strong legislation that
will put an end to this brutal
and vicious form of animal
abuse.

“It is absolutely necessary
legislation.

“But I need the help of
ENQUIRER readers.

“Simply fill out and mail
the coupon provided with
this article.

“Together, we can put an
end to this national dis-
grace.”

-- REGINALD FITZ

 

lars in tax revenue —- and

 

wii‘ﬂrifgﬂjgfgb . my ;;......a&; .5v’r1.;:.'...~..»;e ﬁg .. . . m -, , .. . x
g . ’1" . )l-‘u, ‘_’- .‘\.~ :‘s. .- ’ '.t, _ - . . . _~v $.sz I... ‘lCJ‘. _.:-_:‘
4 . .‘ if, 2 ﬁ' N ’zh: 7,: ; -v\, 1,3"... t. .11” g, 2" ._ . ,
‘ 9185i 0 in i“ i
-7 . , z 9‘ ‘ L ‘ -
r; ~.- -. " ii} ‘ "' 1" 4— ~ - o ,
2? '8' wt 1"“3', ..a-:' 'i ii?“ 4:": .3: '5' " ' ""‘" ‘ " ' ’ ‘1'" w ' --‘ -“"' - ;-~ *~ " ' ’Q
- 2 _ k' ‘2, 'a 3": . ‘5 - J... . .- _ ' .- - I- c t
- .7. €‘;ﬁi‘£— __-,§, “:5 “7 .-'A .h‘? . a
. ix» *1.
L) ’3 -.:
es , _ w w -. . _ ~
£1'-*33°<"”"-w‘2r.‘-‘r"-"a‘r.' ‘ r 1‘ .. . .- -
A. .. , , , . i.

j You can help bring an end
to the barbaric atrocities
committed againstsmall ani-
mals at greyhound training
. ._ Voice your strong support
for Rep. Robert K. Dornan’s
legislation to protect the
I.

I

Name"
| Address "
I City ' i
I Comments: 7'

Mail this form to: End

 

 

.

I...
Q . _'
r " 7-)

a new” - ,

”150

‘1‘. *‘

trage

helpless" creatures by filling ~
out this coupon and mailing
it to The ENQUIRER.

All forms will be for-
warded to Rep. Dornan, who
will present themto the Con-
gress to show support for his

1" .. .

 

 

Dear Congressman Darnan: _ , . |
,. -, ~_We iain you, indemanding quick passage of

. your-bill to put a stop to the use of live animals in
the training of racing greyhounds.

State

It QUIRER, Lontono, Flo. 33464.

new bill.
"""-.”""""""T"’ ’’’’ 1

I

Cruelty, NATIONAL ' EN-

I
I
I
____._Zip________ I
I
I
I

J

SEATTLE POST—INTELLIGENCER - 9/13/86

Trusty Bingo inherits ’
doggone big trust fund

" SOUTHLAKE, Texas (AP) — Bingo the dog is
living in canine comfort on his $50,000 inheritance. '

The 5-year-old part Doberman pinscher-part

German shepherd is the only survivor of a ﬁre

that gutted a North Dallas house in January,
killing an elderly woman and ﬁve other dogs.

.1 {L} 14' git-K"- Soon after the ﬁre, ‘Jim Brooks, the owner of
. .. »- 2" w..- T. if??? :1 " " ‘ T 3973 '1 ' the Bark ’n’ Purr kennlfl, wals gold that hhe gvcamoamo
Q“ r *’ ~ ». ~ 42-“ s«a:zs.r~.;».».-..a..~;..;f;..~..chf: :.'." ’ 322mg“ had left Bingo to the erme , ong wit a 5 ,
lag-”M; This l'Clbbl‘I‘ was killed by greyhounds —— a trust to provide for his care. .

'C 'm o a brutal training session. ' Bingo’s digs at the kennel feature air condi-
tioning, telephone, television and piped-in music.

- The terms of the woman’s will provide lifetime
care for Bingo, and then the trust will be shared
between three charity organizations, said Jim
Dulworth, a vice president and trust ofﬁcer at
RepublicBank Dallas.

’ “I guess you could say that Bingo’s a special
case,” said Brooks. “Bingo is an all-American dog
and has grown quite attached to me. He’s lovable,
playful and yet protective. He really has a great
disposition.” ,

 

ROCKY MOUNTAIN NEWS - Denver - 9/ 3/ 86

NM. child attacked by dogs

CARLSBAD, NM. — A 6-year~old Carlsbad
boy was listed in good condition at a local
hospital yesterday after being mauled and bit-
ten by two pit bull terriers.

Dominic Dominquez was treated for bites on
his arms, scalp and legs at Guadalupe Medical
Center after being attacked by the dogs Mon-
day, hospital officials said.

A sheriff’s deputy said he shot and killed one
of the dogs when it became aggressive while
deputies were trying to capture the animals.
The other dog was impounded. ' -

i

 




NATIONAL ENQUIRER - Oct. 14, 1986

(1.5. Congressman Charges:

Helpless Animals Are Being
Ripped Apart as live Bait
To Train Racing Greyhounds

Up to a half-million rabbits, kittens and
puppies are brutally slaughtered each year
by racing greyhounds -— torn limb from
limb and shredded alive in barbaric train-
ing sessions.

But you can help put a stop to the senseless

bloodbath by filling out the coupon (below) and
sending it to The ENQUIRER. The most bloodcur-

dling training method used by heartless dog train-

ers is a grotesque proce— *— ‘
dure referred to as “live-
lure training.”

“Living, conscious little
animals are tied by their
back legs to a pole that ro-
tates around the track,” re-
vealed Frantz Dantzler, an
official with the Humane
Society of the United States
(HSUS). “Dangling by its
hind legs just above the
track, the animal usually
starts squealing immediately
because it senses danger and
is completely helpless.

“It is moved around the
track in front of two to seven
dogs, who chase it as fast as
they can. At the end of a lap
the pole is slowed down so
the dogs can catch up to it.

“Then the dogs attack the
animal and tear it up.”

Puppies and kittens have
been used in this gruesome
spectacle, but usually the
victims are fuzzy jackrab-
bits.

Helpless bunnies are also
the favorite target in . an-
other cruel greyhound train—
ing method, called “cours-
ing.” A rabbit is released
into a penned-in area -—
quickly followed by two or
more ferocious greyhounds.

 

 

 

:v .

DANGLING; from o machine,tli1is live rabbit (arrow)

is helpless as it's pursued by a dog.

Racing for its life, the rabbit
dashes for an exit at one end

of the pen.

“The rabbit is caught by
the dogs and torn apart alive
almost every time -— it’s a
bloody mess,” said HSUS
senior investigator Bernard
Weller.

“The screaming of the
poor rabbits when they’re
caught is horrendous.

“It’s a high-pitched wail
that sounds exactly like a hu-
man infant.

“Often there are six or
seven dogs after one rabbit.

“At a training track near

 

Waco, Tex, I once saw train-
ers run 25 rabbits in one
morning. At the end of a day
there is always a pile of man-
gled, maimed rabbits, some
dead and some still suffer-
ing.

“The rabbit handlers are
often just youngsters 10 or
12 years old.

“Once I heard one say at
the end of the day’s runs, ‘1
wish just once the rabbit
would win.’ ”

Another HSUS investiga-
tor, Robert Baker, added
that if by some miracle a
small animal does survive a

 

 




NATIONAL ENQUIRER - Oct. 7, 1986

 

ENQUIRER Readers Win the

 

 

Nearly five years after

ENQUIRER readers spear-

headed the drive to end the cruel slaughter of Philippine
dogs for food, the carnage in the island nation has been

slashed a mind-boggling 90
percent.

It was in January 1982 that we
revealed how nearly a half-mil-
lion dogs a year were being
brutally mutilated, strangled,
clubbed, stabbed and roasted to
death —-— then turned into
snacks for rich Filipinos.

In an awesome outpouring of
rage, 240,000 EN QUIRER readers
wrote to the Philippine govern-
ment demanding tough new laws
to put a stop to the senseless
bloodbath.

Officials responded to the cam-

 

 

paign -—- and dog killing plum-
meted.

horror,” said Brigido Simon Jr.,
mayor of Quezon City, near the

capital of Manila. “The number of .

dogs now being killed for con-
sumption is just 10 percent of
what it used to be. Dognapping has
gone down drastically.”

“Readers of The ENQUIRER
played a key role in ending this

FLASHBACK: Dogs

a hr" an Iuﬂh lur dunk. It's in illr
“ 'n- cur \rur may Hullnmil-
" a mi Iurm» M

».V ‘
' .. w a
,. V: ﬁr a; .3; r .
“K '7 J V 3‘ .l “I
i '\v r“ .
’4 . - ;, . "M
‘ .,' ' $5
7" V ‘ . _ a”: g .
I ' i 3‘. ', q’a‘ - , . 1,.»
. . _I,v‘_ r w. .. .' '1 . . .. ‘. . a! ,i I
‘ i L" “M i MET; Lﬁﬂf‘i’n'.‘ . 4's ’ " A . T » - ‘ i a 5w" i
3 ”’"rr ', .’ I. 71,4
. i ’. _ V I ‘
. H, ‘ ' , ‘
~ . " ~ " s L v' a "
‘ A '7 ("x-,5 I‘ ‘ . i ' 1
..,_ ‘. z
; I ,
’ 1
Q“ 9‘ i l
i

”q,

Added Mars Padilla, corre- done much to save man’s best friend."

spondent for the News Herald, a
Manila newspaper: “The city no

Only one hurdle remains: While Ma-

longer has brisk business in dog nila and major surrounding cities have
meat. Pressure exerted by The passed ordinances to protect the animals,

 

 

there is still no nationwide
law preventing the slaugh-
ter.

But government sources
reveal such a bill is likely
to become the law of the
land early next year. In the

 

 

1.‘ A'}! «‘1'! ‘

 

 

were tied up and slaughtered for food before
The ENQUIRER broke the shocking story in January 1982.
ENQUIRER and dog lovers abroad has

meantime, dog butchering
has all but disappeared al-
ready.

“People don’t want to eat
dog meat because of the in-
ternational reaction,” said
Pacifico Rubio, an official
of the Philippines Society
for the Prevention of Cru-
elty to Animals.

“Filipinos now know it is
despised, so the dog butch-
ers were driven out of busi-
ness. And the articles in
The ENQUIRER did it.”

— CHRIS PRITCHARD

 

 




 

MIAMI/ SOUTH FLORIDA

Oct. 1986

CREATURE
COMFORTS

Good news for wayward
cats and dogs. At the Miami
Humane Society they no
longer suffer the indignity of
cages. Now the pets live in
apartments, cute little town—
homes with lanterns, bunk
beds, paneled walls, ceiling
fans, back yards, and front
doors that face the visitors’
corridors. A fourth and final
hallway lined with a half-
dozen or so “pet apartments”
is now being completed.

As the Miami Humane Society
celebrates its 50th anniversary,
it also celebrates being—as far
as its management knows—
the first in the country to
adopt this kind of housing,
which is designed to accom-
plish a practical purpose. Ex-
ecutive director Ken McGovern
explains, “The concept is that,
since these are house-broken
animals, coming from one
home and waiting to go to
another home, we should keep
them in a home—like environ-
ment so they can keep up good
habits. And why shouldn’t
animals live in the" best possi-
ble place, instead of a jail?”

Rather than living in rows
of steel mesh cages, two or
three compatible pets now
share each apartment. Like
everything else at the Humane
Society, the 10-by-12—foot
animal townhouses are paid
for by donations. For a $500
gift, a dog or cat chalet can
even be named after you. Two
cat apartments were still avail-
able at press time, so call now
to be a proud developer of
feline apartments.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ILLUSTRATION: CHI? PQK

 

 

 

INSIGHT

Avian Aid

New Yorkers might think
that the only bird tough
enough to survive the big city
is the pigeon, but Vivienne
Sokol knows different.

The Manhattanite is a
wildlife rehabilitator who
takes in injured birds that
have been disoriented or
knocked senseless by the
glass towers of the city.

“Manhattan is right in the
migratory path of the Atlan—
tic ﬂyway, and often the glass
surfaces confuse the birds
enough that they careen right
into the building,” she says.

The licensed volunteer
gives her time to collect in-

jured birds of many species
from all kinds of sources.
“One woman found a bird
near her ofﬁce, called me
during one of her meetings,
delivered the bird in a taxr
and went off to another meet—
ing,” she says. .
She emphasizes that wrld
birds should not be taken
home. Anyone who finds an
injured bird should notify a
local rehabilitator, the Audu—
bon Society, a 200 or a con-
servation ofﬁcer, she says.

 

INSIGHT - Oct.

 

is, 1986

       

.

(fandors headed for ca tivity.

gander Plan APPmVed

A federal appellate court has ap-
ge'veved a US. Fish and Wildlife Service
gir'ategy to save the rapidly dwindling
”California condor population by captur-
ing all of the birds still in the wild.

The US. Circuit Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia rejected
arguments by the National Audubon
Society that some of the birds should be
allowed to remain in their habitat in
order to act as “pilots” that would help
condors bred in captivity adjust when
returned to life in the wild.

In an unsigned opinion voiding a
lower court injunction, the appellate
court said the agency’s plan was “mani—
festly defensible” and “reasonable” in
light of the urgency of the problem.

The Fish and Wildlife Service orig-
inally planned to leave pilot condors in
the wild as the Audubon Society urged
but altered those plans when six of the
large birds still in their natural habitat
died during the winter of 1984—85. A
seventh recently died. Only 27 Califor-
nia condors are known to be alive today,
all but six of them at zoos in Los An-
gelcs and San Diego.

ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES




 

 

Alligator attacks

Wednesday night’s attack in Crystal River is the eighth in
Florida this year and the 78th since the state began keeping
records in 1948, the Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish
Commission says.

The eight attacks this year are the most in the past five years.
in 193.1, there were six attacks across Florida; there were five in
198.2; seven in 1983; four in 1984; seven in 1985.

In each case this year, the victims were injured by puncture
wounds. No deaths have been attributed to any of this year’s
attacks, the commission says.

. Following are synopses for each of the previous seven attacks
this year: '

I July 24: A 25-year-old man was bitten in the back while snorkeling
in King Lake, in Marion County inside the Ocala National Forest.

I July 20: A 29-year-old man was bitten in the leg while fishing at a
lake near Titusville. The attack occurred at 2:30 am. while the man
was reaching for a fish he had caught.

"E July 16: A 3-year-old boy was r; in 3 3-3;;- 3.-3.3hile wading in a
lake near Winter 3:; :3n.

I July 15: A 14-year-old boy was bitten in the chest while hanging
onto the side of a boat near the Broward County town of Sunrise.
The boy had been swimming and was taking a rest.

I June 25: A 62—year-old woman was bitten in the right shoulder and
hand in the Taylor County town of Keaton Beach while swimming.

I May 2: A 9—year-old boy was bitten in the right shin while wading
and throwing rocks in a lake near Fort Myers.

I March 20: An 11-year—old boy was bitten in the thigh while
retrieving golf balls from a pond at a golf course near Kissimmee.

3 , ' 4.5,? ,. ”,3...” w. y .7,

Source: Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission

ﬁﬁCNPacxeise Mac—.1Vov. 14%

 

MLDLIPE them. In fact, this is the ﬁrst

time we’ve ever been able to

release a predator back to its

THE REEJRN 0F natural habitat. There’s always

gig-E if? 33,333,335? been problems combating

" “ ’” myths, particularly anisong
“LS3“, fast, and born [0 livestock owners.”

Parker reports, though, that

 

 

run. That’s how Warren

Parker of the US. Fish and
Wildlife Service (FWS) de-
scribes the last 80 red wolves
in the won-small of which are
running circles around 100 a
100-foot pens in captive
breeding programs.

But not "for long. This
month, the FWS is ﬂying four
pairs of this endangered
cies, which some authorities
believe is the only wolf native
to North America, to a new
home in the Alligator River
National Wildlife Refuge in
Dare County, North Carolina.
Exciting news to conserva-
titr-nists. and to Part-{31:31 wl'tao’s
been working can and night
to find a home for these wide-
ly maligned creatures. Parker
says, “Wolves have gotten a lot
of undeserved bad press, and
we’ve had a tough time ﬁnd-
ing an area willing to accept

most residents of Dare Coun~
ty welcome the wolves. “The
people there have been very
open minded. For one thing,
there’s no livestock breeding
in the county, so the residents
aren’t afraid of losing cattle.
For another, although the
wolves used to roam all over
the Southeast, tl'iey’ve been
missing from the Date area
for over 200 years, so people
have lost the resentment
against predators that’s so
common out West. We’ve also
put a lot of effort into educat-
ing them about the wolf, and
now they’re as enthusiastic
as we are.”

Most of the prejudice
against the red wolf stems
from ignorance, says Parker——
people lump it under the
same banner as the better
known grey wolf, which has
been known to attack live-
stock and, on rare occasions,
people.

But the canus rufus is a
wolf of a different color. Shy
and secretive, this smaller,
slimmer animal doesn’t move
in packs, usually hunts small
prey like rabbits or squirrels,
and stays as far away from
people as possible.

When it has a choice. Ac-
cording to Parker, all the
wolves being released are
ﬁrst generation captive-born
animals. Although they are
still wild, they’ll need a six
month training program once
they reach the refuge so
they’ll learn how to hunt the

small game common to the
area, and how to avoid dan-
gers like cars. After that,
they’re on their own—almost.
The animals will be tracked
by radio collar and helicopter
to make sure they’re okay.
Says Parker, “If everything
goes well, we’ll repeat the
whole thing next year with
two more pairs. Little by little,
we’ll return these animals to
where they belong.”
—Elz'zabetb McGowan

 




THE TAMPA TRIBUNE - September 26, 1986

Gator ‘
attack

The Crystal River boy
was bitten on the
head, then chased to
shore Where the
reptile broke his leg.

By GEORGE WILKENS
and TOM HENRY
Tribune Staff Writers

CRYSTAL RIVER -— An alligator
attacked a snorkeling 12-year-old
Crystal River boy late Wednesday,
then chased the fleeing child to the
canal bank where the reptile en-
gaged in a lengthy tug-of-war over
the boy with his mother.

The mother won.

Michael Morgret was in stable
condition Thursday suffering from
head and leg wounds sustained mo-
ments before his mother pulled him
to safety. .

“It was awful to see a ’gator chas-
ing your kid,” Jessie Morgret said
Thursday afternoon, standing at the
hospital bedside of her son.

“I could just see it swallowing
him.

The boy suffered a compound
break of the left lower leg and punc-
ture wounds to the scalp, said a
spokeswoman for Seven Rivers Com-
munity Hospital, where the Crystal
River Middle School seventh-grader
was taken. -

The attack occurred at 7:25 pm.
in Miller’s Creek, a spring-fed tribu—
tary of Crystal River that empties
into King’s Bay. The family lives
along the creek.

The youth’s 36-year—old mother,
a teacher’s aide at Crystal River Pri-
mary'School, said she ran from her
home to the creek bank after being
told an alligator had attacked the

9’

boy and was chasing him toward
shore.

She said the alligator apparently
,approached from behind, initially
1 unseen by her son. She said she be-
lieves Michael suffered the head
Wounds during the reptile’s first pass
at the boy, when Michael’s mask and
snorkel were ripped off. -
. “Michael didn’t know what hit
him until he got underwater and
looked up,” she said. Then he saw
the beny.

Commission’s Lt. Vinard Hitt said.

. Michael, who was groggy Thurs-
day from pain medication, told his
mother, “I just stayed underwater”
as long as possible, she said.
“Then he came up and started
heading for shore,” a frantic swim

- ,for safety some 10 feet away, said

his mother. By then she was working
her way into the shallows near rocks
on the bank. “I was screaming,
‘Swim, swim.’ ”

“When he was close enough to
‘shore, I grabbed him. I was pulling
him at the time, and I felt something
release. I pulled again, hard,” and
Michael was safe. .

. She credited Dr. Jose Fernandez,

. a neighbor, with clapping loudly, dis-
tracting the alligator for a few sec-
onds and giving Michael the time
needed to get safely onto the rocks.

The reptile —-— which state Game
and Fresh Water Fish Commission
authorities said they think is an 11-
foot, 31/2-inch alligator they shot and

killed Thursday afternoon — appar-
ently devoured the left swim fin the
boy was wearing, breaking Michael’s
fibula in the process. The mask the
boy was wearing was recovered

from about 6 feet of clear water .

Thursday afternoon by his father,
Larry, 38.

“The mask had at least three
chomp marks on it and the snorkel
was bitten off,” Michael’s mother
said.

She said she thinks the mask
saved her son’s life — that and his
quick thinking.

“Luckily, he used his head,” said
Jessie Morgret. “If he hadn’t gone
underwater, it would have gotten
him in a heartbeat.”

The first warning of the attack
came from Jessie Morgret’s neice,
Kelly Thomas, 14, who was standing
on the bank and saw an alligator ap-'
proaching Morget and two friends.
She screamed to them, but the swim-
mers —- with their heads submerged
—— didn’t hear Thomas until she
stuck her head underwater and
screamed again, officials said.

.But by then, Morgret was “nose
to nose” with the alligator, the Game

ficials didn’t want to take the chance
of getting the wrong one. “Two were
described, so we took both of them."

Game officials transported the
larger reptile to Ocala where its
belly will be opened and checked for

L the missing swim fin.

The attack is the eighth this year
across Florida, four of which have
occurred in the west central region
of the state.

Game Commission Maj. Kyle Hill
said the Morgret attack is the 78th in
Florida since the state began keep-
ing records in 1948.

Almost half of those attacks —— 37

 

—— have occurred in the past five
years, according to Hill and Hitt.

With Florida’s booming popula-

tion, officials are concerned there
Will be more confrontations with al-

; ligators.

“Fifteen years ago, we would tell

5 people not to worry about alliga-
. tors,” Hitt said. “Now, we’re telling
them to look out for them."

Most attacks occur in the eve-
ning because that’s feeding time for
alligators, Hitt said. He said officials
warn people not to swim at night and
never to provoke or tease them.

Although the alligator population
has grown to the point where they
are no longer classified as an endan-
gered species, the reptiles still are

protected by state and federal laws,
which prohibit most residents from
killing, catching, feeding, possessmr
or harassing them, Hitt said.

________________________..

 

 

Officials have destroyed two alli-
gators in the Morgret incident,
though only one is believed to have

. bitten the boy, Hitt said.

Some witnesses described the al-. '1
ligator in the attack as being six to
seven feet long, while other wit-
nesses described it as 10 to 12 feet
long, Hitt said. A 61/2-foot alligator
was killed Wednesday night. Both
reptiles were destroyed because of-

" j

 

Jessie Morgret comforts her'12-year-old son, Mike, in a hospital

 

 

bed after the boy was attacked by an alligator.

 




 

 

Wan d6!“ 1 i?
da ys
0 ver

Even if a big enough
.plate could be tourist this
granddaddy lobster won’t
be on anyone’s menu. The
3-foot, 24-pound
crustacean he?“
the ocean floc:

Franklin D. Rooseveit s
presidency until finally
falling victim to a lobster
trap off New Hampshire
last weelr. The clawed
crawler was presented to
Rick Pierce, curator of the

 

Maine Aquarium in Saco,
to live out its days in
protective custody.

MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL.APPEAL - 9/29/86

 

 

 

AP photo

crawls across the hand of an employee of a Jen-

 

 

 

the strangest creature he has ever seen.

18

e
t

i

legged turtl

ix-
The store owner sai

S

O

headed

A two-
pet store.

 

BOSTON GLOBE — Sept. 24, 1986
Pa.,

town,

 

 

RARE SIGHT

kin

 

 




ATLANTA J OURNAL/ CONSTITUTION

Oct. 2 , 1986

Use animals
for research,

eth‘icist urges

They 'have no rights,’
Mich. professor says

United Press International

BOSTON -— Animals “have no
rights” and should be used as often
as possible for medical research to
avoid exposing humans to potential-
ly dangerous experiments, a medi-
cal ethicist says.

“To achieve maximal safety for
humans we are right to require
thorough experimentation on animal
subjects before humans are in-
volved,” said Carl Cohen, a philoso-
phy professor at the University of
Michigan Medical School.

“The wide and imaginative use
of live animal subjects should be
encouraged rather than discour-
aged,” said Cohen, who outlined his
arguments in a special article
Wednesday in The New England
Journal of Medicine.

Scientists often skip studies us-

ing animals because they fear they
will become targets of protests by
animal-rights activists and because
animal studies can be more expen-
sive and time-consuming than huo
man studies, Cohen said.
. “Access to suitable human sub-
jects is often quick and convenient,
whereas access to appropriate ani-
mal subjects may be awkward, cost-
ly and burdened with red tape,” he
said.

Anti-vivisectionists base their
objections to the use of animals for
research on the mistaken belief ani-
mals have rights and should be con-
sidered equal to humans, Cohen
said. .

Animals have no such thing as
rights because they cannot “make
moral claims against one another,”
he said.

“[Animals] lack this capacity
for free moral judgment. They are
not beings of a kind capable of ex-
ercising or responding to moral
claims. Animals therefore have no
rights, and they can have none,” Co-
hen said.

“In conducting research on ani-
mal subjects, therefore, we do not ,
violate their rights, because they
have none to violate.”

 

Cohen said humans are not free
to “do anything we please to ani-
mals” and researchers should make
every effort to be humane and find
alternatives to animals when possi-
ble. '

“To treat animals humanely,
however, is not to treat them as hu-
mans or as the holders of rights,”
he added.

The benefits of animal experi-
mentation are enormous, Cohen
said.

“Every disease eliminated, ev-
ery vaccine deveIOped, every meth-
od of pain relief devised, every sur-
gical procedure invented, every
prosthetic device implanted — in-
deed, virtually every modern medi-
cal therapy is due, in part or in
whole, to experimentation using ani-
mals,” he said.

“When balancing the pleasure
and pains resulting from the use of
animals in'research we must not
fail to place on the scales the terri-

ble pains that would have resulted, 3
would he suffered now and would ‘

long continue had animals not been
used,” Cohen said.

 

FT. LAUDERDALE SUN - Sept. 9, 1986

NY. police -
seek mugger
of monkey

United Press International

NEW YORK —— A man who mugged
an ailing monkey by holding a knife. to
its throat and warning its owner, ‘ Give
me your money or I’ll cut the monkey 5
head off,” was the target of a police
search Monday. .

The monkey, known as Mr. Mike, was
“shaken but uninjured” in the attack,
police spokesman Peter O’Donnell. said.
The weapon — a 9-inch kitchen knife ——

' had not been recovered.

The monkey mugging occurred about
4 pm. Sunday in front of a Fifth Avenue
department store where Mr. Mike and
his owner had gone begging to help pay
$1,200 worth of veterinary bills for Mr.

Mike’s rehabilitation from a stroke.

The pair, Mr. Mike, a 21/2-year-old

Guenon blue—faced monkey, and Antho-
ny Agnello, 26, of Southbury, Conn,
have cut the vet bill down to .$500
rear: through the kindness of strangers in re-
TTTTT 3 cent weeks, Agnello said.

' Agnello handed the mugger $100 he
had collected during the day but the
man grabbed Mr. Mike and ran, usmg

~. the monkey as a shield until he was
clear of a crowd that gathered. ’
' The mugger then “slammed Mr. Mike

I
i
l
l
i

f down into the pavement” and fled, Ag-

ello said.

 

 

 

 

United Press international

After mugging, “Mr. Mike” is consoled by Anthony Agnello.

 




VICTORIA, B.C., CANADA COLONIST
September 14, 1986

Paris pet cemetery
will be torn up
if owners lose fight

_ .‘A-ICZ-“ -—

15.53;”; x... :'="‘-‘ ~

 

, ,J‘rwn

The Associated Press

PARIS — When Suzanne Brua’s dog Topsie died last month.
she buried her pet by the River Seine in the famous animal cemetery
where stars like Rin—Tin~Tin have been laid to rest.

Returning to visit the grave a few days ago, Brua was shocked to learn
that Topsie and 3,000-0ther dogs, cats, monkeys, horses and parakeets
were about to be exhumed and the cemetery closed for lack of funds.

But the pet owners are fighting back. They have organized a defence
committee, written to President Francois Mitterrand and actress Bri~
gitte Bardot for support, called a‘protest demonstration and demanded
government aid to keep the burial ground open.

_ “It’s a tragedy. There are a lot of older people who come here
whose animals were their sole companions,” Brua said Wednesday as she
and dozens of other pet owners gathered outside the cemetery gates to
organize their protest. “We’re going to fight it.”

Josette J auneau said she was given the choice of paying $140 Cdn to
have her dog’s remains dug up and presented to her for reburial
elsewhere, or paying $120 if she wanted her pet dumped into a mass
grave.

“We are ready to do whatever we can to make sure the cemetery stays
open,” said J auneau adding that she had signed 150 members for the
cemetery defence committee.

Jauneau, from nearby Clichy, said letters had gone to Mitter-
rand, Bardot, Premier Jacques Chirac and more than a dozen other
national and municipal figures.

The Cemetery for Dogs was founded 1n 1899 by actress and journalist
Marguerite Durand with the help of Emile Zola, Sully Prudhomme and
Camille Saint-Saens. Animals other than dogs were also buried there.

Now the shady grove on a bluff overlooking the Seine in the northern
suburb of Asnieres is crowded with tombstones and monuments, many
with pictures of the deceased animal or such inscriptions as. Deceived by
humans — never by my dog.

Dominating the cemetery’ s entrance is a 4. 5- metre high statue
of Barry the Saint Bernard carrying a child to safety. The dog rescued
more than 40 people, leading monks‘from the Hospice of St. Bernard Pass
in the Swiss Alps to travellers buried beneath the snow. .

Barry, who lived from 1800 to 1814, was stuffed and can be seen at the
National Museum in Bern, Switzerland.

The horse Troytown, winner of the 1919 Paris Grand Steeplechase, has
one of the largest graves. Tourists of en seek out Rin- Tin- Tin — one of
several dogs by the same name who starred 1n the American movie and

television series.

:INS/eh’f nets.- €~ 2—84.,

Policing Animal Abuse

I’m glad you gave some space to the
animal rights issue [Nation, Aug. 4],
but your coverage was more than a little
one-sided. It is simpleminded to say it’s
either some dog or your child who will
pay the price. The majority of animal
experiments have no practical applica-
tion to humans —— especially the so-
called psychological experiments; i.e. ,
how much pain can an animal endure
before it goes insane. You also fail to
mention the many safe alternatives to
using animals in research that are
available today.

Your article would have done well to
present the side of the issue that says
“Work not evil that good may result.”

 

And, if evil is worked, there had better
be an unavoidable, compelling reason
for it. The fact that scientists now have
to be more accountable for their proce-
dures on animals is a small step in the
right direction.
Kathryn L. Boyne
Jersey City, NJ.

 




GREAT FALLS (MONTANA) TRIBUNE - Sept. 23, 1986

Grizzly may be dropped as

By BERT LINDLER
‘ Tribune Staff Writer

The grizzly bear in Glacier National Park,
the Bob Marshall Wilderness and surrounding
areas shnuld be removed from the endan-
gered sperms list, according to a draft memo
circulated by the Montana Department of
Fish, Wildlife and Parks.

The memo was prepared by Glenn Erick-
son, who is in charge of special projects for
the department. It has been sent to the US.
Fish and Wildlife Service, the Forest Service
and the National Park Service for comment.

“We’re not making an overt move here to
say we’re going to request delisting at this
time,” said Ron Marcoux, the department’s
associate director. However, the department
wants to make sure it understands what must
be done before the grizzly bear is removed
from the endangered species list.

As a result of the memo, the department
will be meeting with US. Fish and Wildlife
Service officials in two weeks to discuss de-
listing.

“We’re certainly willing to pursue this as
fast as we can with the state,” said Galen
Butterbaugh, regional director of the US.
, Fish and Wildlife Service in Denver. How-

ever, delisting is not something that can take
place in the next three weeks or six months,
he said.

Before the grizzly bear can be delisted,
three questions have to be answered, he said.

0 How many grizzly bears are there in the
Northern Continental Divide Ecosystem?

o What has been the population trend in
recent years?

0 How will the state protect grizzly bears
if endangered species protection is removed?

The number of grizzly bears must be es-
tablished by scientific studies subject to peer
review, Butterbaugh Said. If the number of
grizzlies has been stable or increasing in re-
cent years, that trend would make it easier
to remove grizzlies from the endangered
species list. However, if the population were
declining, that would be a causefor concern,
he said.

A state law allowing grizzly bears to be
killed if they attack livestock is one of the
issues that will have to be addressed when
state protection of the grizzly is considered,
he said. The Endangered Species Act only al-
lows grizzlies to be shot if they are threaten-
ing people.

Butterbaugh said there may be similari-

ties between protection of the alligator and
the grizzly bear. Poaching had reduced the
alligator to an endangered species, but pro-
tection has allowed populations to recover.

When restrictions were first loosened in a
portion of Louisiana, federal prorection was
maintained by classifying the alligator there
as “threatened by similarity of appearance,”
said John Spinks, US. Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice assistant regional director in Denver.

Although alligators were not biologically
threatened in.that area of Louisiana, some
protection was needed to prevent the
loosened restrictions there from affecting en-
dangered populations elsewhere. The case of
the grizzly bear may be similar, since only
one population is being considered for delist-
ing.

The grizzly bear was listed as a
threatened species in 1975. Threatened
species are in danger of becoming an endan-
gered species. Endangered species are in
danger of becoming extinct, or dying out in a '
certain area.

Since the grizzly bear is a threatened
species, the Forest Service and other federal
agencies must make sure that timber sales,
oil and gas wells or other activities do not

endangered species

threaten its continued existence. It also
makes killing grizzly bears a federal offense,
rather than merely a state game law viola-
tion.

However, according to Erickson’s memo,
the goals of the retitovery plan have been met
for grizzlies in the Northern Continental Di-
vide Ecosystem.

The recovery plan says the population will
be judged recovered when there is a popula-
tm an” 440 to 686* grizzlies. “Current estimates
based on the data review for the EIS indicate
the population is currently between 549 to 813
bears,” the memo says.

The reproductive rate, number of females
with cubs, litter size', number of years be-
tween cubs and average known man-caused
mortality are within recovery plan goals as
well, according to the memo.

Furthermore, more than half of the griz—
zly habitat in the Northern Continental Di-
vide is national parkland or wilderness.
Provisions for in recently completed US.
Forest Service and Bureau of Land Manage-

“ ment management plans indicate “grizzly
habitat on these public lands is secure for the

forseeable future,” the memo says.
__Other lands serving as grizzly habitat are

;‘ sin-2.; n .L

owned by the Montana Department of Fish,
Wildlife and Parks, Nature Conservancy and
Boone and Crockett Club.

“With the protection of these large areas
for grizzly bear, ‘future anticipated levels of
habitat encroachment do not threaten the
continued existence of this species,” the
memo says.

Hunting is allowed on less than half of the
ecosystem. The annual known mancaused
mortality of 14 grizzlies, only six of which
may be females, is based on minimum popu—
lation estimates, the memo says.

The grizzly bear in the Northern Continen-
tal Divide is not isolated, but is a portion of a
population extending from Montana to the
North Slope of Alaska. “Segments of this
population in Alberta and British Columbia
are reported to be stable not increasing,” the
memo says.

When the grizzly bear was listed, increas-
ing human use of Glacier Park and livestock
grazing on the national forests were also con-
cerns. Since 1977 Glacier’s backcountry use
has declined. Livestock use on surrounding
national forests is closely regulated and con-
flicts are resolved in favor of the bear in .
critical habitat, the memo says.

 




THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC — Phoenix - Sept. 14, 1986

too-ton victim dragged
into port after collision

United Prose lnternatlonal

LOS ANGELES - A rare blue

whale was killed in a collision with a.

container ship off southern California,
authorities said Saturday.

The 859-foot ship collided with the
75-foot-long, lOO-ton female whale
Friday morning in the Santa Barbara
Channel and dragged the carcass to
Los Angeles Harbor, port ofﬁcials said.

largest animal that has ever lived and
can grow to 100 feet long and 150 tons.

At one time numbering 200,000, the
whales were extensively hunted for
whalebone and oil used in perfume.
Their numbers have dwindled to about
6,500 worldwide, and they are consid-
ered endangered, according to Green-
peace International, a group that
monitors sea mammals.

The ship, named the Barber-Tampa

and carrying a variety of cargo, was off
Santa Barbara when it was forced to

 

.v , . .,. _. ...

The blue whale is considered the slow down Friday.

as HOUSTON m - A... 25, 198.
UH using bunnies
to work out bugs
in new contact lens

Ultraviolet rays absorbed

By LESLIE LODDEKE
Post Reporter

 

Rabbits wearing contact lenses
are providing both an unusual
spectacle and a revolutionary dis-
covery at the University of Hous-
ton.

“It’s a soft contact lens that
has the ability to absorb ultravio-
let radiation —— the first I know of
anywhere in the world,” said Dr.
Donald Graves Pitts, who has
just completed conclusive re-
search on the UVX lens.

Pitts, professor of environmen-
tal optometry and visual science
at the University of Houston, is
no stranger to rabbit research.

In the mid-1960s, Pitts led a
team that studied “hundreds of
rabbits” to find ways of protect-
ing astronauts’ eyes from radia-
tion in space and on the moon,
said Dr. Thomas 'I‘redici , a mem-
ber of the team Pitts led.

Pitts said the tests on rabbits
“are designed not to cause any
pain or distress.

“If you do that, the rabbit will
squeak at you,” he said.

The rabbits are anesthetized so

they remain calm when the

lenses are inserted, although the
soft, flexible material doesn’t
hurt their eyes, said Pitts. Rab-
bits’ tearing systems are superior
to human beings since they don’t
have to blink to lubricate their
corneas, he said.

About'40 lab rabbits have
gazed through individually tai—
lored UVX contacts. Many of the
modern lens-wearers are beauti-
fully colored, luxurious-coated
purebreds, like the champagne-
toned Burmese bunny Pitts pat-
ted affectionately.

“By next summer, we should i
have those lenses on the mar-

ket,” after obtaining FDA ap-

proval, Pitts predicted. Dave-
Duarte, spokesman for the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration,
said no hard or soft contact lens
with a UV-blocker currently has
the agency’s approval. ‘

The UVX lens will protect peo-
ple’s eyes from ultraviolet rays in
sunlight, Pitts said. “Particular-
ly in Texas, we are concerned be-
cause we get so many days of
sunshine here. So many people
abuse their eyes at the beach or
beside the pool on the weekends.”

 

Container ship kilis rare blue whale _

Dan Zambrano, a marine specialist.
at the Cabrillo Beach Marine Museum.
said the crew of the ship did not know
what had happened until it docked and
the whale’s carcass ﬂoated to the
surface.

The whale, which had just reached
maturity and was '7 or 8 years old, was
pulled into a berth until it could be
towed to a nearby beach for dissecton.

There was no damage to the ship,
which is owned by the Barber Steam

ship Line. ~

 

 

 

Post as... “5.6.
Pitts readies contact lens for rabbit's eye. ~

aig ill—SEE

 




TAMPA TRIBUNE - Sept. 24, 1986

Researcher gets 0

GAINESVILLE (AP) —— A researcher
nere has been given federal permission to
émport tissue from endangered whales
Killed by Icelanders despite objections from
environmental and animal-rights groups.

Richard Lambertson. a veterinarian at
the University of Florida, wants the tissue
for his study on deaths of whales from dis—
ease.

A permit issued last week by the Na-
tional Marine Fisheries Service will allow
'Lambertson to import an unlimited amount
of tissue through the end of the year, said
Bob Ziobro, a biologist with the fisheries ser-

vice in Washington. .

Nineteen animal rights and environmen-
tal organizations opposed the permit, sayin g
Lambertson was lending credibility to Ice—
land‘s whaling program.

Iceland has stopped commercial whaling
in compliance with a moratorium imposed
Jan. 1 by the International Whaling Commis:
sion. But the North Atlantic country plans to
kill 120 whales this year for a research pro
gram that is exempt from the ban.

The US. Commerce Department has
criticized Iceland’s program but says it is
legal even though Iceland hopes to sell al-

most half of the whale meat to Japan.-

The tissue will be from sei and tin .
whales, both listed as endangered. Fin
whales grow to 80 feet and live in all oceans.
Sei whales grow to 55 feet and also live in. all
oceans, but most often are found in Antaro .
tic waters.

Iceland will kill the whales regardless of
whether Lambertson does his research, Zio-
bro said.

The environmental groups will not chal-
lenge the decision in federal court although
they are upset with it, said. Dean Wilkinson.
a spokesman for the environmental group
Greenpeace.

The decision may give Iceland the im-
pression that the U.S.'government condones
its research program, Wilkinson said. But he
added there was little chance of getting a
federal judge to overturn the decision.

A protest is planned next month at the
University of Florida, said Leslie Scheele, a
Jacksonville member of Greenpeace. Last
year, the group dragged a rubber whale
named Flo to the university’s administration
building.

Campbell Plowden, a spokesman for'the
National Humane Society, said his organiza-
tion plans to call for a national boycott of
Icelandic seafood.

-land’s whaling

“We feel what we need to do is stop lee-
period,” he told The Or-
lando Sentinel in an article published Tues-
day.

Lambertson has said his research is con-
servation-oriented, and he expects his con-

clusions to support calls for a ban on all

whaling.

He said earlier this year that his re-
search indicates that the International Whal-
ing Commission has overestimated its
quotas for whaling nations because it has ur ~
derestirnated the natural deaths of the man‘-
mals. ‘

 




SEATTLE POST-INTELLIGENCER - Sept. 15, 1986

Grizzlies think Washin

WASHINGTON PASS,
' HIGHWAY 20 —- A state trooper
saw a grizzly bear here a few
weeks ago, near where the North
Cascades highway bends under the
ﬂank of Liberty Bell Mountain.

Jon Almack, a grizzly-bear
expert working for the state De-
partment of Game, told me about
the sighting as we drove here to
hike up to a “grizzly bear’s super-
market.” .

“I haven’t had a chance to talk
to the witness,” said Almack, “but
he’s a trained observer.”

The trooper reported the bear

was beside the highway, ripping '

rotting logs apart to get ants and
grubs. .

“He reported the bear had a
hump,” Almack said. “That’s the
sure sign of a grizzly. Black bears
don’t have humps.”

There have been 11 reports of
" grizzly bears seen in this state this

ear

 

JOHN .
DE YONGE if;

 

 

 

Pass where the highway creases
the toe of an avalanche chute on
Whistler Mountain. We toted
packs, cameras, binoculars, note
books, emergency clothing, ra-
tions, ﬁrst-aid kit.

“I’ve not yet seen a grizzly in
the Cascades,” said Almack. He
glassed the slope carefully before
we left the highway. “Grizzlies
were seen right here a couple of
years ago.” _

Almack, who researched a mas-
ter’s degree on grizzlies and their.
habitat in the Selkirk Mountains
where Washington, Idaho and
British Columbia meet, is in the

won ’3

ﬁrst year of a ﬁve-year project

- locating grizzly habitat and grizz-

lies in the vast area that has the
North Cascades National Park as
its core and big hunks of the
Mount Baker-Snoqualmie, the
OkanOgan and the Wenatchee Na-
tional Forests around it.

The project, funded for $24,000
this year, is sponsored by the
Game Department, the US. Park
Service, Forest Service, Fish and
Wildlife Service and the British
Columbia Wildlife Branch.

Grizzlies are classiﬁed as an
endangered species in this state, as
a threatened species in the U.S.,
save for Alaska. In the US.
outside of Alaska, grizzlies —
fewer than 1,000 — surVive only in
Wyoming, Montana, Idaho and
Washington.

We climbed down the highway
ﬁll, bushwacked across a creek in a
thicket, scrambled for 45 minutes
up the avalanche chute.

'We parked west of Washington-

0

Almack, 34, still recovering

a grimeat place to live

from leg injuries suffered during a
night parachute jump when he
was a member of an elite Navy
‘ SEAL team, has mercy in him. He
stopped frequently, to let me pant
as he pointed out bear grass,
bearberry, huckleberries, biscult
root, avalanche lilies, mountain
ash, sedge grass — all part of the
vast grizzly menu. ,

“People don’t know that vege-
tation makes up as much as 98
_ percent of a grizzly’s diet,” Al-
mack said. “They don’t tend to
feed on big game at all. They’re

’ ‘ opportunistic feeders. They’ll take

what they come across.”

They frequent avalanche
chutes because as snow melts up
the slope over the summer, patch-

es of rich, new green plants grow‘

right behind 7 it. “Where the
greenup is is where the most
protein is,” Almack said.

A male grizzly can weigh 600
- pounds, a female 500. Except for_
j mating and cub rearing, they are

solitary' animals. A bear may
require as much as 1,000 square
miles of home range. Grizzlies
have excellent hearing and sense of
smell, poor eyesight, and a body
humped and straight-clawed, built
for digging mountainsides for food.

Color ranges from blond to black. .

They have low reproductive
capacity. They are slow breeders.
A female may not breed until
eight years old and may care for a
cub for three years before breeding
again. ' .

Almack has no sympathy for
the scare stories about grizzlies in
hunting magazines, but he does
not downplay the grizzly’s ferocity
when people get too close, get
between a female and cubs, or
tempt a bear to raid by leaving
food about.

He refuses to’guees how many

grizzlies are in the North Cas-
cades. His research aims to answer

that. Its ultimate aim is to help

biologists ensure that grizzly pop- ~~
ulations thrive within a given ,
habitat. _

Almack said, however, it would
not surprise him if the North ,
Cascades now shelter 10, 20, even
30 of the big bears.

High on the avalanche slope
we found no fresh bear sign. But
down in the thicket along the
creek, we found a ripped-up log
and hours—old bear dung, which
Almack recorded and then sacked
for lab study.

Chances of running on to a
grizzly in the North Cascades are
few, Almack said, because the
bears are few, the area large,
remote. However, he strongly
urges hikers to forearm themselves
with the grizzly-bear pamphlet at ‘
park headquarters in Sedro-Wool-
ley.

“Just because you don’t see
the bears doesn’t mean they’re not
there.”

C] De Yonge is a P-I columnist.

 




ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH — 9/27/86

 

 

William Childress

 

 

 

 

' ‘ NEE WHEN I was a small boy,
I chanced to be walking in

downtown Lawton, Okla., with Dad. _3

Animal Lovers Snub
The Gentle Skunk

I’m talking‘hard-core animal lov-
er. The kind of person that leaps to
the defense, in many cases quite

litary and law

MEMV/v‘ij Came/K’Mz, ﬂ

PPEA £—
f- .245, 86

.3 would be handy for
:23) banks and slaughter-

ing pOliU- officers.

nobly, of a variety of “beasts of the .
earth,” in use Old Testament
language.

because it “was specifical-
33, all without reloading.
driver the years and:

a viewpoint of the editor.

,‘
ti

dent uses.” 3

i

federal Bureau of Alcohol,

Tobacco and Firearms has banned

“Ii—don’tmrecall why — perhaas
"he’d seen a saie on brogans a:.:.;?
{‘was taking me in for my annual

pair.

' In those days, Lawton was barely
big enough to have a downtown, but
" ”today it is a large, bustling city with

Eli?

Sure. just the thing for killing
holding

The NRA and other gun afi-
‘cionados contend, however, that it
a SQUII‘I’t‘ii, a bear and a dove at one

The

It

designed for mi

There is much to be said in
faVOI' of hard-core animal lovers.
But the ladywho togged her tiny

power.”

1y
as expressa

. freeways, traffic and Fort Sill.

As we' walked, 1 saw a woman
come out of a “fancy goods” store.
.3 Such department stores catered to

the wealthy —— usually women —
and this lady was togged out fit to
. kill. Leading her — leading her —
was this fairly good-sized insect
, that was fur-covered and had four
legs. It was also wearing clothes.
“Yap! Yap!” said the insect, as it
led the lady past.
Well, TloOked that little bug over
mighty careful, for I had never
' seen the like. Dad appeared to pay
the scene no mind, other than to
touch his Stetson to the lady, who
ignored it. She was tall, imperially

pooch out in gew-gaws, well, if I

' ” coulda hocked ’em, they woulda
bought shoes and overalls for my

three siblings and me.

However, I don’t think they go
far enough. Yep, that’s what I said.
For all their nobility, and theirtte-

nacity, they practice animal 7

bigotry.
' They roar into the fight to save

' whales, and I’m for that, and risk

their lives battling seal pirates. On
the domestic front, the various pet
organizations see to it thatvivisec-
tion ranks right upthere with abor-
tion as a crime -—— although even
Ann Landers points out that animal
research has saved countless mil-
lions of human lives.

Just for hunting?

F'

THE National Rifle Associ-
ation has gone off on another

arms-for-the-Citizen binge.

Having just made a pitch to the gun.

make the sale of machine guns to

the public legal, it now wants the enforcei

government to allow the import of
Striker-12 semiautomatic shotguns

for private owners.

in would be useful for hunting.

(1
has a revolving cyl3

manufacture

The gun,
South Africa,

inder which holds 12 shells that

can be loaded with different size fell swoa

shot and can. be fired as fast as the
trigger can be pulled. An adver-

tisement s

ays it has “awesome fire-

Edltorials iiriihese m: commas represent a heritage'tif opinion

isthat The Commercial Appeal h

 

defined by th

 

Ti 1:.ievolvln'g hplnlons as they are

3 slim, and had what Mom would

"have called “airs.” Yet they are biased, and I can

prove it. Tell me, pray, the last
time one of them went out of his
way to help a skunk?

Skunks are Clean, gentle crea-
tures that will not attack unless pro-
voked or threatened. You can’t say
that about dogs, especially if you’re
a postman. '

It was a while before the runt-
« sized critter was out of sight, and,
' being polite, I waited till then to ask
"my question.
“Was‘at'thang a-wearin’ shoes?”
' I asked Dad, and he grunted
affirmation:
, “An’ did it have on a coat 0’ some
' kind, all sparkly?” .
, _ “Yeah. Now stop astin’ so many
- questions.” '
’ When my Old Man delivered that
warning, experience had taught me
.‘that. I cséifti 37:9? away with one
more; maybe, and I took the
.. chance now.
“Dogs don’t need shoes,” I said.
{Kids need shoes.” ,
- . Well, Dad did what he has always
j done best —- ignored those under
;,_the age of 14, which I wasn’t yet.
But the incident gave me some-.
T’ihing to think about, which I have,
off and on, for many years.
j Animal lovers are curious folks
' (sometimes. When I say animal lov-
3‘ 'ers, I don’t mean your ordinary
soft-core types like kids tossing
‘ balls .to cocker spaniels, or farmers
:_ whose, dogs help herd stock.

Skunks are intelligent and
sanitary — but you won’t see any
animal rights activist invite one
into his home, not even through the
back door. 3

Ever see a hard-core animal 'l'ov- -
er call, “Here boy!” and allow a
skunk to leap up on his lap and lick
his face? ' -_-_

No one defends a skunk against
losing his hide to a furrier. ‘

And I’ve yet to see a bejeweled
pair proudly walking their skunk
(with its matching jewelry),'yet
who could deny that this little crea-
ture is far more attractive than,
say, fat pooches with underslung,.
jaws and pop eyes?

It’s OK to love animals. It’s even
OK to love them a lot. But it you aSk f
me, being prejudiced towards
skunks really stinks.

 




NATIONAL ENQUI RER

Juriesiﬂer'riai'sﬂev

The hearts of millions have been warmed by the
touching animal stories of James Herriot. the
British country veterinarian famed for such
best—selling books as "All Things Bright and

Beautiful."

Here — exclusively for INQUIRER

readers — is a brand-new classic from his now-

est best-seller,

"James Herriot's Dog Stories."

It' s a wonderful tale of hope about a dying old
woman 's devotion to her pets. .

Heaven Has a
Place for Pets

By JAMES HERRIOT

The card dangled above the old lady’s
bed. It read “God Is Near. ” It didn’t have a
frame. It was just a strip of cardboard.

Miss Stubbs couldn't see much more than
that card from where she lay -— perhaps a few
feet of hedge through the frayed curtains, but
mainly just the cluttered little room which had
been her world for so many years.

As I knocked on the door of her cottage, the
place erupted with the barking of Miss Stubbs’ —
dogs. I had been visiting regularly for over a

year and the pattern never changed; the furious
barking, then Mrs. Broadwith who looked after

Miss Stubbs would push all
the animals but my patient
into the back kitchen and
open the door.

I knew Miss Stubbs would
never get up from her bed
again. But she never men-
tioned her illness and pain to
me; all her concern was for
her three dogs and two cats.

Today it was old Prince
and I was worried about him.
It was his heart.

“I thought I’d best give
you a ring, Mr. Herriot,"
Mrs. Broadwith said. She
was a comfortable, elderly
widow. “He’s been coughing
right bad this week."

As I moved my stetho-
sc0pe over his chest, the old
dog stood very erect and
proud.

I patted his head and pre-
scribed some medicine.

The next stage of the visit
began now as Mrs. Broad-
with brought in a cup of tea
and the rest of the animals
were let out of the kitchen.

There were Ben and Sally, ,

two old mixed-breeds, and
they
barking contest with Prince.

They were closely followed f
by the cats, Arthur and ;

Susie, that began to rub

themselves against my trou-

ser legs.

Mostly Miss Stubbs liked
to talk about her pets and
the ones she had known
right back to her girlhood.

Sitting there, I realized

that the one thing which

 

brought some light into the
life of the brave old woman
was the transparent devo-
tion of this shaggy bunch
whose eyes were never far
from her face.

My next visit was less than
a month later. Ben had col-
lapsed. As I went into the lit-
tle room, I saw old Ben lying
on his side, very still.

“Well, it was quick, Miss
Stubbs. I’m sure the old chap
didn’t suffer at all." My
words sounded lame.

I pulled a blanket under
the dog and lifted him up. As
I was moving away, Miss

 

started a deafening}

 

 

‘5'. *¥

V arming

Sept. 9, 1986

 

The old woman was afraid sire wouldn’t see her pet:
after she died - I assured her she would.

 

Stubbs said, “Wait a mo-
ment.” With an effort she
turned on to her side and
gazed at Ben. Still without
changing expression, .she
reached out and touched his
head lightly. Then she lay
back calmly.

Later, Miss Stubbs told
me: “You know, Mr. Herriot,
it will be my turn next.”

“What do you mean?”
“Well, tonight Ben has

 

 

 

gone and I ’m going to be the
next one. I just know it."

Then this brave woman
told me her greatest fear:
“It’s my dogs and cats, Mr.
Herriot. I’m afraid I might
never see them when I’m
gone and it worries me so.
You see, I know I’ll be reu-
nited with my parents and
my brothers but . . . but . . ."

“Well, why not with your
animals?”

“That’s just it.” She
rocked her head on the pil-
low and I saw tears on her
cheeks. “They say animals
have no souls."

“Who says?”

“Oh, I’ve read it and I
know a lot of religious peo-
ple believe it.”

“Well I don’t believe it.” I
patted the hand which still
grasped mine. “If having a

i soul means being able to feel
» love and loyalty and grati-

tude, then animals are better
than a lot of humans."

She stared at me but her
face was calm again. “Thank
you, Mr. Herriot. I know you
are being honest with me."

It must have been about a
month later that I heard
Miss Stubbs died. I went to
see Mrs. Broadwith immedi-
ately. "Well, it was sad about
the old lady,” she said. “She
had a peaceful end. Just

- slept away at finish.”

“What has happened to

 

Storyof laveand Devotion

BEST FRIENDS: This photo recreates the touching scene when Miss Stubbs, surrounded by
her pets, told James Herriot her greatest fear — that her animalswouldn’ t go to heaven.

the animals?” I blurted out.

“Oh, they’re in the gar-
den," she said. She got up
and opened the door. With a
surge of relief I watched my
old friends pour in.

“They look great, Mrs.
Broadwith. How long are
they going to be here?”

“They’re here for good. I
think just as much about
them as the old lady ever did
and I couldn’t be parted
from them.”

“This is wonderful,” I
said.

Before leaving, I looked
slowly round the little room,
and at the door I paused and
read for the last time the
card which hung over the
empty bed — “God Is Near.”

Old people and their at-
tachment to their beloved
animals. So many write to
me voicing the same worry
as Miss Stubbs: “Do dogs
have souls?” I can say that I
am as sure now as I was then
that her pets have gone
where she has gone. Another
thing which worries old peo-
ple is what will happen to
their pets when they die. I
know from my experiences
in practice this is a dread
which will continue to haunt
people, but I have found it is
very often groundless. We
live in a compassionate
world and there are a lot of
Mrs. Broadwiths about.

From the book JAMES HERRIOT'S DOG

STORIES by James Herriot. Copyright c

1986 by James Herriot. Reprinted by per-

mission of St. Martin's Press. Inc. New
York

 




NATI ONAL ENQUI RER

 

 

Dog Heroes of the Year

 

 

Here are the exciting stories of tour very special dogs— —dl ﬁnalists
in the 1985 Ken-L Ration Dog Hero of the Your Awad.

Family Pet Rescues %

3 From

1‘ , .
{a ,1. ,:-.
rm“- 1' 7: ‘51.." ;,'-.. .- ,4"
. 1. £1 - v .1- .3 ‘ :. -~..- ‘
' 5:, 1 .. - .~ 9
y g 4 1. . 1r
"Lie-r?“ .. 1»

When police Lt. Paul Hibser dragged a drowning
puppy out of a river and took her home, he had no idea
that eight years later she would repay him many times;
over — by saving his entire family! .

On a cold night in November 1984, deadly carbon monoxide
gas began hissing cut of a malfunctioning burner at Hibsers >
home 1n Peoria, 111., while he was on duty. His :2.
wife Nancy and their two daughters seemed

destined for death.
Boots went into action.

.but then their dog

Nancy, 38, was wrenched awake at 3 a. m. by the
8-year-old dog’s excited yelping. Boots kept jump .
ing up and down on her mistress’ bed, licking Nan ‘
cy 5 face and barking loudly. ‘

Nancy her skull pounding with the pain of a
Splitting headache, tried to shoo Boots away — but

the dog persisted.

As soon as Nancy sat up in bed, Boots
scampered to the bedroom of her daughter
Halli, 16, and woke her up the same way.
Then she ran in another room and wakened

Wendy, 13.

Bath children cried out to their mother
that they felt sick -- but when Nancy went "
to help them, she suddenly collapsed on the

floor.

“Boots immediately tried ta help me‘
up, " Nancy said “She put her nose under
my body, but I couldn’t stand. Knowing I

had to get help, I crawled back to my room
and phoned my husband Paul.
“I told him: ‘Something terrible is hap-

pening . .. we're all sick!’
“Paul shouted over the
phone: ‘Open the windows
and get air into the house.
It’s carbon monoxide!’ ”
Nancy crawled to a sliding
glass door and managed to
open it. Then she c“: ...:ged
her daughters to 11: near.
An ambulance 3111112111 and
rushed them to a hospital.
All made full recoveries.
“If it wasn’t for Boats we
would all have been dead,”
Nancy said.

 

evening in January 1985.

“Where’s Celia?” he ask-
ed. Frisky grabbed his pant
leg and began tugging him
toward 1‘: ’Si‘TE'LllbOX. As he
follows gag across the
icy sn: . covered the
ground, he heard his wife
cry out in pain: “Help me!
Help me! I’m hurt!”

The 68-year-old woman
had slipped on the 'ice,

Added her husband: “Sav- 3”;-
ing Boots from the river re-l f
turned dividends I could

never have imagined!”

little Pooch
Raises Alarm

Jim Vessels was dozingm '
front of the TV set when he
was abruptly awakened by
the shrill barking of his 7-
year—old Pomeranian, Fris-
ky outside the front door.

Vessels opened the door
— and immediately knew

something was wrong. Fri
ky never left the side of Ves-

 

September 23, 1986

PADDLING TO SAFETY, Getty pulls Lee Gibson and
her little dog to shore In this re-creation of rescue.

‘ 3» began jumping up and down.

The car slid to a stop on the

155,. icy road.

told Vessels later:

The driver, a neighbor,
“I never
saw you or your wife. All I

- saw was Frisky jumping up

and down — and that’s why I

» stopped ”

Added Vessels: “Frisky
saved Celia's life. If he
hadn’t woke me up, she

x would've frozen to death.

' 2 And stapping that car also
._ prevented what could have
‘V' been a‘tragedy."

BARKING at door, Frisky warned .1111»
Vessels that his wife needed help.
dog was alone that bitter

breaking her arm and leg,
while going to the mailbox
outside their Sumner, Tex.,
home. She was lying on the
road, unable to move. Ves-
sels bent to lift her from the
roadway -- but just then a
car came down the road,
heading right for them It
was dusk and visibility was

poor. ,
Suddenly Frisky ran down
the road toward the car and

 

Dog Saves Two

From Drowning

A fun-filled motorboating
jaunt off Florida’s West
Coast nearly ended in trag-
edy for Mannie Levin and
her friend, Lee Gibson
Mannie, Lee and Lee’s tiny
pet pug named Beana all
came terrifyingly close to
drowning -— but Monnie’s
dag Geffy, also along for the

outing, saved bath women

and the small dog.

When the boat’s motor
quit, Mannie and her friend
decided to swim the 100
yards to shore. Geffy, a 105-
pound bull mastiff, jumped
in the water a ter them. Lee
had tiny Beana111cked under
one arm as she swam for
safety.

Suddenly, the women ran
into a swift current and
couldn’t swim through it.
But Geffy came to the res-
cue.

Monnie, 38, hang onto the
powerful dog’s leash .... and
he pulled the Dania, Fla-

/2' woman ashore.

5111: AND sauna thanks to their pet Paul Hib-
a sels' wife Celia — but the ser ’swife and two daughters owe their lives to Boots.

Then the brave dog plung
ed into the surf again and
swam out to Lee and Beana,
who were being carried away
by the current.

When Geffy reached her
side, Lee grabbed hold of the
dog’s collar - and he pulled

 

both her and Beana to shore.

“Lee was exhausted and
frightened, but safe," said
Mannie — who’s convinced
that if Geffy hadn‘t been
along that scary August day
in 1984, they might have lost
their lives.

Mutt Battles
Enraged Cow

Al Choate faced death
when an enraged cow at-
tacked him in the corral at
his ranch — knocking him
down and brutally battering
him with her head, shatter-
ing the ribs on his left side.

Choate rolled into a ball in
a frantic attempt to protect
himself, but the cow kept
butting him. Then a flash of
black-and-white fur leaped
over him — and his 13—year-
ald dog Tango dug her teeth
into the cow' 3 cheek.

“That cow forgot all about
me and started to shake her
head, trying to get Tango
1.137 said Choate, 67, of Port
Tenemend, Wash.

“But every time the cow
shook her off. Tango went
right back at her, snarling
and biting. While Tango and
that cow were going round
and round, I rolled under
the corral fence."

Choate said he was “hurt-
ing like hell” after the at-
tack, which accurred in Au-
gust 1985. But he managed
to drive himself to a hospi-
tal, where doctors discov-
ered his ribs were fractured
and the bottom of his left
lung was filled with blood

Choate said 171: Tax
which is half border collie
and half Australian shep-
herd, has been “my best
friend ever since. if it wasn’t
for her, I wouldn’t be
around."

L11-

-— LEONARD KA TZ

 

 

 




He said only nine or 10 cases of

human rabies have been traced to . . .
. go into action when it heard a

J ":22: 11:16am 40 years records have movie era sl I. It would flyj'

. ' ake a right or left turn and
And although our bats do get . m’ m ..
rabies —— 137 rabid ones were pounce on a frog that Tuttle ,

i . ,
found in California last year — :pomted Wt 1“ 8 pond. .

the don’t become aggressive like Cox said he and his Wife raised-z
mozt animals with rabies, Con- half 8 dozen orphaned baby b?“ '
stantine said. ' 7 A , "' the fruit eaters called ' flying

“They just becOme paralyzed,“ "L‘foxes” —- while he was working in

he said.“They may die hanging in “Samoa. They would hang -
the roost, or they may. fall down ..i “DSIdE'dOWD from. 1‘13 arm and
while they’re trying to fly.” ,; ,_lap mﬂk from § syringe. .

Rabid bats bite only if people : “You get. this idea as a kid that

pick them up, Constantine said. {.1 '_ bats are llke Dracula, kind 0f

Tuttle said the bat’s nasty 1019'. ,but these flyms foxes are.

reputation is undeserved. beautiful,” he said. “When we’d -

“Far more people die annually, ‘walk in the room, these little’
“of all kind of things we don’t baby bats wopld crawl up and

remotely fear, like being struck___ .. squeak and Climb up on “8, sort
' on the head by falling coconuts. ' 9f like PUPPIBS- They’re really
. _ . . ‘ . . -. .. ~innocuous little creatures. Maybe
{00d 120180111113 from church pic-1, i one reason we’re afraid of them is
nice or attacks by perfectly ‘ iithat we don’t know much about
healthy dogs,” he said. , ' them.”

Indeed, he said, innocent bats .'
suffer, along with the environ-,
them, when people go after the
few troublemakers.

For instance, farmers who;
think bats are biting their liveé ,
stock or stealing their fruit often

_ retaliate by poisoning every bat
in sight — ' including the insect: '
eaters that keep crop pests down.

- In reality, Tuttle said, bats ,

‘ rarely eat fruit that is rsady for '

harvest. They go for the serrips
stuff, which might. eff: '
come a breeding gram“. er pests
such as the Mediterranean fruit

4 fly.

Bat poisons are inadvisable on
several counts, the experts say:
They’re ineffective, they can be. ‘
dangerens to human health and
they leave a lot. at" frantic hats

that may come into contact with”.
children or pets.

. “You could conceivably have a
lot of sick bats flopping around
your house if you poison them,”..
said Elizabeth D. Pierson, who
just ﬁnished a doctoral thesis on
the evolution of bats.

Health authorities have ap-
proved no poisons for killing bats

» in California, Constantine said.
The sniff? safe and. effective M.
to get rid of hats that are roosnng
in a building, he said, is to wait
until they leave and then plug the
entrances. ;

All in all, researchers say, bats

are smart, good-natured beasts. ‘

Tuttle said he’s trained bats to
- perform for photographs by giv- _

ing them food treats.

“I have captured wild, full-:

grown bats and had them coming

on call in three hours,” he said.

In one case, he taught a bat to

armed . with a
He had moved the rest of his ani-

e of the animals

m the Sduthwick
n Mendon, a pri-

Wild Animal Farm
, he said, but to give

himself time and space to clean the

Essex farm.

ruel y

two dead goats, said spokeswoman

Card] McCarthy.

to a tent on a dairy farm in Ep-
N .H. —-— not to avoid Massachu-

Friday, when the tent was found,
league officials from Massachusetts
reriaimed the camel and six mon-

During a second search in Aug-
Riffs-'3.

” ust, league officials teak more ani-

The officials,
search warrant, seized a cow, pony,

goat and pig that the league said
mals were all recently purchased

and he was in the process of fatten-

ing them.
a camel and six monkeys were re-

mais away for treatment. On Oct. 8,
were being kept. Fe issued an ar-

were underweight and had para-
sites. Watson, however, said the ani-
ported stolen fro

vate zoo where son.

rest warrant for Walsen.

ping.

setts authorities

.,
’i

Q

rnes (3

Rescue
’5 a little

D

bit legitimate, (like) you. iiirln t clean
t your dog mals

the lions,

, camel, elephant. exotic birds

0

the pen real good today."
it'emmercial

Ni
. said the animals gen-

\ ,3
.51":
«xvi

( i: r

-kepi. and healthy.

monkeys and. sheep at
“It’s fanatical,” he eat “I can go

tor

i

ment of Agriculture took some
they get a little grief from the

“It’s absolutely a vendetta,” Waté
“Over a period of time, as any-
one in the animal business will tell
League officials and veterinar-
ians, however, tell a different story.
Acting on a tip, league officials in
June said they saw lnabdeep mud

son said in a telephone interview. '

Watson,

tigers
ous skinny, sick-looking animals and

tipped his water over and say you‘re
and manure, tight quarters, numer—

webs” and blew them out of propor-
cruel.”

minor problems with “dust and cob-
tion.

League. Maybe some of it
to your house and find the

USDA and the Animal
horses, pigs,

rural fairs and for
promotions

eraily were well

you.

i

\

779nm Tff/ii/A/ 5.. «£707. 27, M as

Animal exh

ictim “or fa-

, is charged

tions

“Some of the animals‘

n shape and their

have wit-

him beating

aid league officials

and inspectors for the U.S. Depart-

d the East Coast Camel
state officer for the or-

C0. in Essex for 22 years
" said Richard W. Bryant,

gue officials say inspec
of the Essex farm found unsanitary
conditions, cramped quarters and

sick and dying animals.
“This is the worst case of cruelty

Brian Watson, 42, who has owned
I’ve seen in my 15 years with the

BOSTONKAP) —-— An animal ex-
hibitor charged with cruelty after of-

But Watson 5

hant in a Massachusetts parking lot
Lea

with animal cruelty and stealing
uarters were filthy. We

back six monkeys and a camel taken
from him by the Animal Rescue

New Hampshire farm and an ele-
League of Boston.

ficiais seized two of his tigers on a
nesses who have seen

‘natics.

and operate
league,
prosecuting
ganization.

were in pretty roug
C1

the animals.”

D
| said Tuesday he is the v

\

 

 




THE PHOENIX ARIZONA GAZETTE - October 28, 1986

Bats: Gentle, shy,

s'y GLENNDA cum ' > '
Knight-Bidder
f Forget thatbats are evil crea-
tures that swoop out of the
2....darkness, fasten their fangs in the
nearest jugular and spread dis-
' Base.
.1. . Think of them, instead, as
sweetie pies.
' ' Bats are gentle and shyaMost
-' never bite except in self-defense.
g3" Bats are ecologically impor-
extant. Without them, we’d have no
+“banan'as, cashews or life preserv-
ers, and we’d scratch a lot more
. mosquito bites.
, Some bats are even tasty — at
‘1e‘ast, in the minds of Pacific
islanders who like to stew them,
' fur and all, in coconut milk.
Rag”; But for all their good qualities,
- the world’s 950 bat species are in
shouble, according to Merlin D.
.Tuttle, founder of Bat Conserva-
.;<stion International and the cru-
jading Jacques Cousteau of the
bat world.
3.: “Bats are one of the few
:animals that are killed on sight
.jnst for being bats, just because
people don’t understand them,”
Tuttle said. .
5;; As a result, he said, their
numbers are declining every-
where:
:5 eThe bat population of Eu-
rope has dropped 90 percent in
the last 20 years.

eIn Guam, ' where bass are,

considered 575' delicacy, hunters
have wiped out two of the native
species —-— and the third is in
danger. . .

eNinety percent of insect-eat-
ing bats have been poisoned in
Israel, and 8,000 bat caves have
been poisoned or dynamited in
Brazil.

eThe Mexican free-tailed bat
has disappeared from ﬁve of its
nine largest cave roosts in Mex-
ico. Two caves were opened to
tourists, one was burned by'

phosphate miners, and one was .

dynamited. -

0 And in the United States,
some of the largest bat caves in
the world are endangered by
vandalism, human disturbance or
pesticide poisoning.

For instance, Eagle Creek Cave
in Arizona was home to an
estimated 25 million bats in 1963.
Six years later, only 30,000 re-

inseful — and dying

mained, and gun-shell casings
littered the ground near the
entrance.

Fifty years ago, Carlsbad Cav~
em in New Mexico housed nearly
9 million bats. But after miners
drilled a shaft into the main
roosting area, the population
dropped to 500,000.

And the gray bat, once one of -

the most common mammals in
the southeastern United States, is
now on the endangered list.

Not many people know about
the slaughter, and even fewer
care, said Tuttle, a visiting pro-
fessor at the University of Texas-
who has studied bat ecology for
25 years. He has written articles
on his work for National Geo-
graphic, published photographs
in hundreds of books and maga-
zines, starred in a British Broad-

: casting Corp. documentary, ap-

peared on television and traveled

A the world to stir interest in bat

conservation.
Tuttle founded Bat Conserva-
tion International, a 1,000-mem-

2 her organization whose aim is to
' . educate the public.

To begin with, he said, bats

perform essential jobs in nature.

They are the only major con-
sumers of night-ﬂying insects,

such as mosquitoes, he Said. A
5. bat can eat up to 1,000 small
insects an hour; the world’s
biggest colony, 20 million strong
’_ at Bracken Cave in Texas, is
estimated to eat more than

250,000 pounds of insects per

night. -
i “Just stop and think how
- many mosquitoes or moths it
would take to make 1 pound,”
Tuttle said.

A“ number of valuable tropical

plants depend' on nectar-eating

bats to pollinate their ﬂowers and
fruit-eating bats to scatter. their
seeds. These services are essential
for wild bananas, avocados,
carob, dates, ﬁgs, cloves and the
kapok tree, whose pods contain
ﬂuffy fibers used to stuff life
preservers.‘

_ Some scientists believe bats
are the most important means of
replanting tropical forests. As
they munch fruit, they spit out

seeds or swallow them and later‘

defecate.

“Bats spread a continual rain

of seeds throughout the tropical

rain forest,” said Paul Cox, a
botanist at Brigham Young Uni-
versity in Utah. In areas where
bats become extinct, he said, “50

, or 2100 years down the road we

l
i

may see‘plant species disappear-
ing either because they haven’t
been pollinated or their seeds
haven’t been dispersed.”

So if bats are such nifty

Z creatures, why do people hate

them?
Because “bats have not had

7. good press, except in the World

"Series,” joked Alan Dundee, an_

fanthropology‘ professor and folk-
‘? lorist at the University of Califor-
nia at Berkeley.
‘ ' Dundee said bats are regarded
with suspicion in a number of
cultures. Seemingly half-bird,
shelf-mammal, they don’t fit in.
This prejudice was reinforced
by vampire lore, popularized in
the 1897 novel Dracula. Accord-
: ing to legend, the vampire is a
tormented soul who leaves the

 

I
i

I

 

r
i

i
n

n
l

l

grave at night, sometimes in the
form of a bat, to suck the blood of
the living.

When three species of blood-
eating bats were discovered in
Latin America, they promptly
2 were named “vampire bats.”

Actually, vampire bats rarely
bite humans, Tuttle said. When
they do, they don’t go for the
neck; they usually sneak up while
a person is sleeping, make a small
cut in a toe-and lap up the
seeping blood. ‘

Eagle Creek Cave in
Arizona was home to
525 million bats in
1963. Six years later,
only 30,000 remained,
and gun-shell casings
littered the ground
nearby.

Although the out itself isn’t

- harmful, vampires can spread
2 diseases such as rabies among
2 livestock and people.

, But in the United States,
2 where there are no vampire bats,
2the chance of catching rabies
l'from a bat is almost zero, said
‘ Denny G. Constantine, a public
health veterinarian for the Cali-
‘fornia Department of Health
Services in Berkeley.

 




DENVER POST - Oct. 27, 1986

FRONT PAGE

 

Chained

By Jim Kirksey
Denver Post Staff Writer

A 3.year—old boy wandering alone
a block from his home was attack-
ed and killed Sunday afternoon by
a pit bull terrier chained in the car-
port of a southwest Denver home.

The victim was identified as
Fernando Salazar of 1066 S. Clay
St.

Police were unsure of all the de-
tails of the incident, because there
were no witnesses.

Police Technician Steven Shott
said the unsupervised boy appar-
ently went into the carport on the
south side of a house at 1099 S.
Dale Court to pet the animal.

A spokesman for Denver Gener-
al Hospital said the boy suffered
multiple bites to his face. Shott
said paramedics told him the boy
also went into cardiac arrest.

The names of the parents of the
dead child weren’t immediately
known, but the owners of the dog
were identified as Gil and Phyllis
Troncasa.

‘Owners quite upset’

Authorities said Troncasa was
watching the Broncos game on
television and was unaware of the
attack. When his wife returned
from the grocery store, Shott said,
she saw the dog shaking some-
thing, realized it was a child and
pulled the boy from the dog’s hold.

“The owners are quite upset
about it,” said Shott.

Troncasa, who would open the
front door only a crack and spoke
only briefly with reporters, said:

 

kills boy, '

“We just don’t feel good at all. It
happened so fast.”

He said he and his wife, who also
own a second pit bull, keep the
dogs “to give us some advance no-
tice in case someone was trying to
break into our house . . . but noth.
ing like that.”

No previous problems

- Police at the scene said they
weren’t aware of any previous
trouble with the dog involved in
Sunday’s attack. ,

They said the Troncasas have a
little girl about 5 who plays with
both dogs, and the dog involved in
the attack appeared friendly to of-
ficers when they took her to an anie
mal control van.

However, an animal warden at
the scene said he would issue a
summons to the owners, accusing
them of having a vicious dog. He
said the dog will be kept at the city
animal shelter at 666 S. Jason St.
pending the outcome of an investi~
gation by homicide detectives.

Jackie Vigil, who lives a couple
of houses up the street from the
Troncasas, said: “When little kids

xwalk by, they walk on the other
side of the street. Everyone does in
this block.”

She said that, although the dogs
are always chained up, their bar-
king recently scared away bur-
glars from her house. '

“I’m glad they’re there,” she
said. “People are always breaking
into our houses. . . . But that little
boy shouldn’t have been back
there.”

FT. LAUDERDALE SUN-SENTINEL - Oct.

Parrot in court
apparently fails
to sway judge

By JOE KOLLIN
Staff Writer

 

Donovan didn’t want to become a
jailbird Thursday.

“Say hello to Judge Ford,” his
master, David D. Hagen, told the
parrot as they appeared before
Broward County Court Judge Har-
vey Ford.

Donovan didn’t say a word.

“I guess the cat got his tongue,”
said Hagen, who faces 90 days in
jail and a $500 fine for having the
macaw on the Hollywood Beach
Broadwalk Sept. 6 in violation of a
city ordinance.

Hagen, 34, who lives near the
beach in the 300 block of New York
Street in Hollywood, pleaded no
contest to the charge.

But he told the judge he shouldn’t
get a stiff sentence because chil-
dren love the tame bird, it attracts
tourists to the beach and 600 people
signed petitions asking the city to
let the bird stay.

“I’m sympathetic to your cause,”
said Ford, sitting at the South Re-
gional Courthouse in Hollywood,
“but the city has made a determi-
nation that [animals on the beach]
shouldn’t be allowed. What their
reasons are I can’t say. I would sug—
gest you take your petitions to the
city and request they modify [the
ordinance].”

Ford postponed further action,
including sentencing, until Dec. 11
because Hagen “had a petition with
that many signatures.”

“I moved down here from west
Fort Lauderdale just for the beach,
and I’ve been going there with him
for a year without anyone com-
plaining,” Hagen said.

He said he would begin speaking
to city officials today.

Assistant City Attorney Herbert
B. Dell, who served as prosecutor,
said, “I think what Mr. Hagen is
trying to do would turn the Broad-
walk into a petting zoo.”

Vice Mayor Suzanne Gunzburger-
added, “If you allow pets, there is
the possibility of turning the beach
into a pet lavatory.”

 




32A

Fort Lauderdale News/Sun—Sentinel, Friday, October 31, 1986

 

Al Redmon and wife, Faye, care for an alligator snapping turtle.

 

‘ The Associated Press

DAWSON, Ga. -— Al Redmon, concerned about the

decline of the nation’s turtle population, dug six ponds -

on his land and hauled tons of rock with his pickup
- truck to create a haven where the lumbering reptiles
are protected from man and pollution.

Redmon and his family have collected 35 types of
waif torties, some so rare they live in only one or two
" ~ " ';~:- entire country. They mate ‘1. - 555 or
i 555; meta’lm a long she». 555:5 5 3 5c.“
_. eggs amid the rocks or in piles of dirt on the banks.

“I reckon we just want them all here at the house, so
they’ll have a start if they ever clean the water up,”
said Redmon, a bearded man who drOpped out of
school when he was 14. “Nobody has ever gotten these
turties up and tried to breed them.” ’

The Redmons hatched 20,000—30,000 turtles this
year, including the flat musk turtle, which thrived in
Alabama’s Warrior River until they were nearly
wiped out by pollution from coal mines.

Their turtles live in four ponds rimmed by clay
banks and two rectangular pools surrounded by stone
walls. Water is pumped in constantly from a deep well
nearby. When the sun is up, the turtles climb on ﬂoat—
ing logs to bask in its warmth.

The family grows duck weed and water hyacinth in
the ponds for turtles that live on vegetation and gather

Exrim erea a:

‘Wwasamaz

 

The Associated Press

5 “a“
.5233 '12, ‘1’

fish heads from seafood dealers for the meat-eaters.

As he strolls from pond to pond, Redmon rattles off
the names of turtles he has collected. He mentions the
yellow blotch turtle, the American wood turtle, the
Texas map turtle, the loggerhead musk turtle, the
spotted GeOrgia turtle and the striped neck stink pot.

His most elusive isthe bog turtle. He captured it in
the mountain streams'of Georgia’s Union County but
noted, “There’s itty,.bitty colonies scattered along the
East Coast.” ‘.

His rarest is the Alabama v ,, whieh lives only
in the brackish waters near Mobile Bay and lays its
eggs on one small island.

He also has the blending turtle, which lives in Michi-
gan, Wisconsin and Minnesota, and the Suwanee

« cooter, which is now protected in Florida.

Fume“: favorite is the alligator snapping tufﬁﬁ,
which he used to gather by the truckload until he gave
up trapping about four years ago. Now, instead of
sending them off to be turned into soup, he breeds
them and releases 3,000-4,000 a year into the rivers
and streams of Georgia, Alabama and Florida.

In the summer, Redmon and his wife, Faye, and
their three sons travel to rivers and streams in search
of rare turtles. They have gone as far west as New
Mexico and as far north as MinnesOta.

To finance their work, Redmon sells turtles to col-

lectors, some in Japan and Germany.

 

 

 




LOS ANGELES TIMES - October 29, 1986

Cougar Attacks

 

Answers Are
as Elusive
as the Lions

By STEVE EMMONS
and EARL GUSTKEY,
Times Staff Writers

For more than 30 years, Phil
Pister, a California Department of
Fish and Game biologist, has been
packing into the eastern Sierra
Nevada wilderness and camping
for weeks at a time. It is ideal
mountain lion habitat, and scores of
the big cats live there.

So how many mountain lions has
Pister seen in those 30 years?

' None, he said. “I’ve seen their
tracks, but I’ve never personally
seen a lion.”

That is all Lee Fitzhugh, a
mountain lion specialist at UC
Davis, would have expected Piste-r
to see of what people considered a
shy, wary animal—that is, until
recently when something started
going wrong.

Seeking Answers

Now Fitzhugh and others in the
state are trying to figure out why,
seemingly all of a sudden, moun-
tain lions are attacking human
beings in California. Two children
have been hospitalized in Orange
County this year from maulings,
giving new force to demands from
hunters and ranchers to resume
hunting the cats.

Until recently, Fitzhugh said,
mountain lions were rarely ever
seen. “In all the time I’ve spent in
the field—10 to 15 years—I’ve only
seen one.” But in 1984, when he
started a count of lion tracks, “it
seemed like everyone I talked to in
the field had seen a lion once or
twice,” Fitzhugh said. “I began to
be really concerned about what
was happening.”

Fitzhugh wasn’t the only one
noticing an apparent change in
mountain lion behavior. Earlier
this year in June Lake, Calif., not
far from Pister’s home base of
Bishop, a mountain lion came onto
the porch of Larry and Carol
Hughes’ two-story tract house and
dragged off their 6-year-old Eng-
lish setter.

Ignores Rifle Shots

Two days later and about 60
miles away near Big Pine, a lion
came into Susan McCrory’s front
' yard and attacked her dog. When
she fired two shots into the air from
a hunting rifle to frighten it away,
the cat not only ignored them but.
walked toward her house and killed
a goat tied under the porch.

Fitzhugh reported his worries
last March 5 at the 12th Vertebrate
Pest Conference in San Diego. In
his speech, he cited the increase in

“ potentially dangerous “close en-
counters” with mountain lions in

California and the numbers of live-

stock lost to lions. He predicted the
possibility of a tragedy.

“Most of the time the lion will not
attack [humans], but the data show
that it may happen again in Califor-
nia,” Fitzhugh said, according to a
published version of his report.

Eighteen days later, he -was
proved tragically correct. A moun-
tain lion attacked 5-year-old Laura
Small of El Toro in Caspers Wil-
derness Park east of San Juan
Capistrano. Before being driven off,
the lion severely mauled her, leav -
ing her partially paralyzed and
blind in one eye.

Orange County officials closed
the park and hired professional
hunters, who killed a lion they said
was the one that attacked the girl.
But 6% months later near the same
spot, a lion attacked and mauled
6-year-old Justin Mellon of Hun~
tington Beach. Justin’s injuries re
quired 100 stitches; he was released
from a hospital two days later.

This time county officials closed
the park indefinitely and huddled
with wildlife experts to determine
how to react. This week at the
request of the county, state Fish
and Game personnel will begin a
major study of lions in the park.

Fitzhugh has another prediction
that will do little to cheer them or
anyone else. In a recent interview
he said that such mountain lion
attacks “Could occur in other parts
of the state” as well.

And, he added, the victims, like
those in Orange County, most like—
ly will be small children, because
their size, movements and voices
trigger the lions’ predatory in-
stincts. To a lion, they act like food.

Gary Bogue, who as curator of
the Alexander Lindsay Junior Mu-
seum in Walnut Creek, Calif, has
raised mountain lions from cubs
and studied their behavior, agreed
with Fitzhugh’s premise.

The cats, he said, do not perceive
children as simply small humans.
“They see a kid as a big, fat rabbit.
They see them as a prey species. If
you go to the zoo with your kids,

watch the eyes of the leopards,”
Bogue said. “They’re staring at the
kids.

“Cats I’ve worked with, if they
see a kid, they crouch down and go
through all the postures that they’d
do if they were looking at prey
species. I’ve seen it with wild cats,
and I’ve seen it with tame, domes
ticated cats.”

Fitzhugh says that records of
mountain lion attacks on humans
confirm this preference for chil-
dren as prey.

One study found records of 66
mountain lion attacks on humans in
the Western Hemisphere since
1750. Twenty—three of the attacks
were fatal.

Breakdown Changes

Earlier attacks were almost al-
ways on full-grown men, because
few women and children were in or
near mountain lion habitats during
those years, Fitzhugh said.

“But since 1950, the records are
about half and half, children to
adults. Since there are still many
more adults than children in the
wilds, that shows a preference for
children. And since 1984. all of the
attacks I know about have been on
children," Fitzhugh said.

His report singled out Vancouver
Island in British Columbia as hav-
ing an extraordinarily large num-
ber of such attacks. Authorities
there report 12 lion attacks result--
ing in death or serious injury since
1900. Two of the attacks occurred
last year on children in a park and
on a hiking trail.

In 1972, a lion pounced :2n and
killed a boy who tripped and fell to
the ground while playing near his
home. In 1977, a girl bending over
to pick berries was attacked and
killed. Both victims were about 12
years old, authorities said. Neither
was accompanied by an adult.

Frank Tompa, the British Co~
lumbia government’s specialist for
carnivore and problem wildlife
management, said his government
has reacted not only by killing
specific lions that have attacked
humans or livestock, but also by
trying to teach the average citizen
“how to behave with wildlife.”

Simply not allowing children or
pets “to run around by themselves
in areas where there are cougars.”
is enough to greatly reduce the risk
of attack, he said. The presence of
children seems to invite occasional
attacks, but the presence of adults
alongside the children seems to
discourage them, Tompa said.

' This makes sense, Fitzhugh said,
when you consider the behavior
patterns of cats.

“There has been a good amount
of research on cats in general," he.
said, and it shows that recognizing,
stalking and attacking prey is in-

nate behavior triggered by specific
actions of the prey animal.

 




 

their whereabouts]. They have re-
cords of walking within 15 feet of a
cat with a collar and not being able
to seem him. They walked right by
and the lion didn‘t move. There are
records of lions following people
apparently out of curiosity. These

Mauling Brings Call to Curb Trail Use

Oran M Cennty’s Environmental Management Agency, which
oversees operations at a wilderness park where a 6-year -old
Huntington Beach boy was mauled by a mountain lion recently,
has recommended that children be forbidden to use its camping and

nature trails.

surrounding areas.

implemented.

 

The agency, in a report to be delivered today to the Board of
Supervisors, also is recommending that groups hiking at the
Ronald W. Caspers Wilderness Park be limited to two adults each
and that a permit be required for park use. But the written report,
which was released Tuesday, rejected as impractical calls from
public officials to eliminate all mountain lions from the park and

The 7,500-aere park near San Juan Capistrano, which has been
closed since Justin Mellon, a first-grader, was attacked on Oct. 19.
will remain closed for ansther 60 days while the new procedures,
expected to be approved by the supervisors, are being

 

 

Many of these reactions are
Common to both large and small
cats, he said. “I think someone who
is a careful observer of the domes-
tic house cat has a pretty good
understanding of how a mountain
lion would act,” Fitzhugh said.
“The research shows the two
things that most stimulate predato—
ry behavior are small objects going
straight away or small objects
going at right angles ‘to the eat—
something running away or run-
ning crossways, and it seems to be
the running movement that is
important.

“Secondarily, quick move-
ments—something that a prey ani-
mal would be doing~~-trigger the
reaction.”

Fitzhugh said that domestic cats
“are very much attracted by cer-
tain kinds of sounds-rustling and
squeaking.” He said it appears that
such sounds attract mountain lions
as well, although the sounds by
themselves do not seem to trigger
an actual attack. Mountain lions-t

may be attracted by the

high-pitched, excited chatter of
children at play, he said.

Presented with the sights and
sounds that to a cat mean prey, the
house cat and the mountain lion
“go through the exact sequence of
prey-catching behavior: the

" crnuch, the stalk. right through the
whole sequence," Fitzhugh said.

Even kittens who have had no

ccntact with ether cats instinctive-
2}: {allow this: restart: he said. Flick

a wad of paper past them and they

pounce even before they know

what it is.

“If any animal of the right size
starts running directly away, it is
likely to trigger a predatory attack,
even if the lion has never had
previous experience with that ani-
mal,” Fitzhugh said.

On the other hand, Bogue says
that mountain lions “are basically
cowardly” and, faced with an adult

human standing his ground, a lion
will retreat. “Screaming and yell-
ing and being aggressive right back
is a good way to chase them away,”
Bogue said.

“I wouldn’t be concerned en-
countering a mountain lion in the
wild. I’m not concerned at all, and
I've encountered them. I’ve had
some I’ve raised come at me, and
shouting and waving your arms
backs them off."

It’s not merely an adult human’s
size that intimidates a mountain
lion, Fitzhugh said. Research
shows that “any cat, even the big
cats, show a certain amount of
apprehension if something ap—
proaches them from above. It
doesn’t react well with something
that’s exag’assively tall.”

Also, the mountain lion is wary
of prey that doesn’t act according
to the rules, and the adult human’s
innate, involuntary reaction te be.
ing startled probably acts in his
favor, Fitzhugh said. The human
typically turns toward whatever
has startled him, falls into a defen-
sive crouch and utters some cry or
sound. This is not what prey is
supposed to do, and such actions
likely would cause a charging lion
to pause and even abort an attack,
he said.

Such encounters over the years P
undoubtediy led to the belief that .
mountain lions were, in effect,
harmless to humans, Fitzhugh said. .
But that, along with other assump- g
iinns shes: the animal. may turn

an? in he. untrue.

“The idea that lions are afraid of
people I think is wrong," Fitzhugh
said. “We. can’t say necessarily that
they’re afraid. We can’t say that
they're secretive. They don't nec-
essarily avoid people, and they
don’t necessarily run away.

New Perception

“I’ve talked with some of the
people who have done radio-collar
studies [in which transmitters at—
tached to mountain lions monitor

were in the wilds where people are
not that common.”
Confronting a human, the wil-

derness mountain lion is forced to
react to this animal as prey or

something to be avoided, Fitzhugh
said i can take sever? enceun-
4.- ‘nis instinct tells him
We. tn do.

But at the edge of the human

habitat, where people are; risinnion.

the mountain lion's curiosity may
have been satisfied. “In Orange
County, where you’ve got the large
human presence, there may have
been an actual threshold level
crossed where the lions are now
perceiving humans as prey,” Fitz—
hugh said.

This relatively new proximity of
mountain lions may be the basic
reason for the attacks, Fitzhugh
said. Both human and lion popula-
tions have grown greatly in Cali-
fornia, their previously separate
domains now overlapping and
making encounters much less rare.

Bogue says he believes reasons
for the recent attacks are probably
very complicated and will require
much study. Analysis so far “has
been highly speculative,” he said.

“Some say it’s probably because
of more encroachment, and yet a
few cats always have been in
relatively close contact with pen.
ple. Suburban reside: ' .. .42,
observe lions, like in the uakiand
hills, which are fairly wooded. I
have verified sightings there. Why
hasn’t there been a problem
there?” Bogue sai‘ .

Just how many lions are located
anywhere at any tma has been a
controversial topic at heast since
the 19705. Virtually everyene con-
nected with the issue concedes that
it is impossible to actually count the
cats.

“They hide and they’re damned 7
good at it,” says Eldridge (Red)
Hunt, chief of the California De-

 

partment sf Fish and Game’s wild»
life division. “And their home
range his. they’re never in one
place it}? an .

-. u guesses
based on insufficient data, and all
you can do is explain how you made
your guess, Hunt said.

Early in the century, one hunter
hired by the state to reduce the
mountain lion population estimated
that there were 600 of the cats in all
of California. That estimate was
unchanged in 1971 when the state
Legislature enacted a moratorium
on killing the lions at the behest of

 




conservationists, who said the ani-
mal might be facing extinction.

Authorities now believe there
were actually more than 2,000
mountain lions in the state at that
time and that they now number
about 5,000, 15 years after the
moratorium began.

Gov. George Deukmejian vetoed
an extension of the moratorium last
year, but the state Fish and Game
Commission last spring postponed a
decision on permitting a resump-
tion of mountain lion hunting. The

commission asked the Fish and
Game Department staff to gather
more data on the cats’ location,
density and population.

Hunt said that no matter when
the issue comes up before the
commission—it is scheduled for
next spring—“at least half of the
people in the [hearing] room will
say our information is indefensi—
ble.” The hunter will always want
a mountain lion season, and the
animal lovers will always be
against it, he said.

He said his staff will have better
information on mountain lions next
year than they did this year, “but
there is never going to be enough
information for the people who are
against taking mountain lions.”

Spokesmen for hunting organi-
zations say the increase in moun-
tain lions has drastically reduced
the number of deer, and they favor
sport hunting of lions to adjust the

balance between the cats and their ,

favorite prey.
A spokeswoman for The Moun-

tain Lion Coalition and the recently '

formed Mountain Lion Preserva-

tion Foundation said that while
some lions may have to be killed,
her membership is unwaveringly
opposed to allowing hunters to kill
the animals “for fun." Hunters only
want the number of deer increased
so that they, not the lions, get to
kill them, she said.

Al Taucher, a retired sporting
goods retailer from Long Beach
and a member of the state Fish and
Game Commission, said the com-
mission wants to make sure the
Fish and Game Department
“doesn't go off half-cocked before
we know what’s going on.”

He said, however, that if the
department’s report next year on
mountain lions contains what he
thinks it will, the commission prob
ably will vote for controlled hunt-
ing of the cats.

And in View of the lion attacks on
two children in Orange County, “I
think if the vote was taken today, it
would go [in favor of resumed
hunting]. Maybe not 100%, but it
would go. What we have out here is
an indication of something. I’m sure
there are too many cats,” he said.

“I don’t think it’s that cut and
dried yet,” said Bogue, who de-
scribes himself as a “well-known
anti-hunting person.”

“I don’t think we have to go out
and start blowing away cats.
There’s been a push by hunters to
put them back on the hunting list
for a long time. Unfortunately [the
attacks in Orange County], is a
very convenient thing to get it
done." _

Fitzhugh said that if the lion
population is reduced near human
habitation, “it probably would re-

duce the number of incidents. But
we would not have changed the
fundamental problem; lions becom-
ing accustomed to a lot of people.

“Doing something in Caspers
Park is not going to get the job
done. It’s just too small an area.
These lions are traveling in and out
of the park and through the Santa
Ana Mountains. If lions were re—
moved from Caspers Park and their
territories left. vacant, it would only
be a little while until other lions
move in.

“To reduce the population, you
would have to go through the Santa
Ana Mountains and Camp Pendle-
ton. And, even then, eventually it
would be repopulated—certainly
within a year. It can’t be done just
once and forgotten about.”

He said that to reduce the moun-
tain lion population, constant pres
sure against the cats would be
necessary. But, he said, the state is:
“justifiably afraid" of opening up
such areas to sport hunting and
running the risk of “a bunch of
vigilantes going out shooting up
the countryside. It would have to
be done carefully through permits
so you don’t get the wild man our.
there with his Uzi.”

“If anything good comes from
this,” he said, “it is that the pubiit
comes to realize that wiid animals
really are wild animals and will act
according to their behavioral pat~
terns. And there's nothing we can
do to change those patterns.”

 




BOSTON GLOBE - NOV. 1

I'ET'?‘;;;~>

,

1986

 

ERS TO THE EDITOR

 

 

Controlling Canada
geese population

Until days ago, Gardner was
a residence for 100 Canada
geese. They overstayed their
welcome and made a general
nuisance of themselves. But
overpopulation of Canada geese
is a statewide problem and not
just: the headache of Gardner.

Baseball fields have to be
raked before games can be
played; beaches and shellfish
beds are covered with polluting
wastes; golf courses and resi-
dential yards are despoiled;
drinking water sources are con-
taminated.

Most Canada geese were mi—

gratory at one time. But now
many remain 12 months a year.
In summer they spread out and
breed in lakes and ponds. In
winter they cluster in areas and
mix with migrants arriving
from Labrador and Newfound—
land. When those migrants de-
part, the resident population re—
mains behind. lndeed, Canada
geese populations are reaching
historical highs all through the
Atlantic ﬂyway.

There is no effective control
method and they are protected
by federal law. The question
arises whether they should be
classified as migratory and
hunted under federal migratory
waterfowl regulations. There is
only one hunting season a year,
andthis realistically offers no
hope for substantially culling
the ﬂocks.

One way to prevent large
populations of residential Can-
ada geese is to stop the misguid-

ed feeding of these and other
types of waterfowl. People love
to feed these beautiful and ma—
jestic birds. But, in doing this,
they are creating an unnatural
situation, taming wild birds
and making them too depen—
dent and trusting of human be—
ings.

The news media and the so—
called animal rights activists
are to be criticized for reducing
the Canada geese overpopula-
tion problem to a ridiculous ani-
mal lovers vs. hunter fracas.
Strong emotions are evoked,
but real issues are avoided.

At issue is how to handle
proper wildlife management of
these geese. Will individual ani*
mal rights be foolishly consid-
ered more important than the
status of an entire species? Will
opponents of hunting be al—
lowed to continue illegally har-
assing hunters who have the le-
gal right to purse their sport?

KAREN HOLMES
North Middleboro

 

Poketus,

a 3-year-

old Chinese pug and Pekingese.

lot of the town’s airport from her furry friend,

Canine patrol
ling

the parking

eliminate the need for an early-morning. walk.

has to be hooked up to a water source to function. But

 

n does

the size of a standard washing machine

,‘ runs on electricity and

which works as a bathroom for dogs an

d cats. The contraption.

Litter box goes hi
LYON

D

gh-tech

United Press international '

Canicat.’ a new machine

France -— A dog tries out a

ATLANTA JOURNAL - NOV. 6, 1986

 

 

 

. ' mam;
Sylvia Hagler of Groton, Conn, gets help control-

\Almklsg

 

 

 

CW“ TRIBUNE .' QGt 3.1.1986

 

 

 

 

 




FT. LAUDERDALE SUN-SENTINEL - 10/27/86

Letters:

 

t8 momma.

 

 

 

\ little less speed aﬂoat could ease some fears

I’ve been in town all year now.
can, my friends and relatives will
a joining me. I want to take this

me to ask all you boaters to please,

the heed and watch out for us.

We are there, just under the sur-
ice of the water. We are hard to see,
i please go slow so we have a
lance to get out of the way. We
lean you no harm and we are gentle
id playful. Some of us even enjoy
ring around humans, but most of us
1y away.

We love the Florida vegetation, es~

:cially the hydrilla, but please don’t-

ed us in the Open water, because,
ill see, upon your pleasure vessels
ill carry our enemy 3— the one ob-
ct that scars and maims us for life

and can even kill us. That is the boat
propeller. But by respecting the post-
ed sanctuary signs and slow speed
signs and by observing the caution
signs, we will be around for your
children’s children to see us break
water for air, play, sleep and eat in
the wonderful warm waters. '
I am sad to report that in the whole
state of Florida, as of August 1986,
91 of my friends have passed on. You
can help all of us by slowing down
and respecting our water space. I
have asked a good human friend of
mine to write this letter for me, be-
fause', you see, I am a Florida mana-
ee.
LUREE T. HUGHES
Broward County Audubon Society
Manatee Committee

LOS ANGELES TIMES ~ Oct. 28, 1986

Suspect in Burning of TiUCk Full of

Guard Dogs Caught h, i’olice Dog

By NIESON HIMMEL, Times Staff Writer

An Inglewood man suspected of
stealing and setting fire to a truck
full of guard dogs was spotted by
authorities Monday, but fled—only
to be bitten and dragged by a police
dog from his hiding place beneath a
building.

John Daniels, 30, had been
sought since shortly after a truck
loaded with 37 attack—trained dogs
belonging to (i‘ & C Sentry Dogs
International (if Gardena disap-
peared from a southside street last
Sept. 5. The truck was found ablaze
a short time later.

Two of the dogs burned to death.
Nearly two dozen escaped. Most
were recovered and one was found

dead on a freeway. But four were

.—._.._-.- .

 

Haas mm Peg? /0 area

Horses, dogs

If one wants to vote for pari-
mutuel horse racing and against
dog racing, does one have a
"choice? Hopefully, the answer is
yes. If not, I must vote against
both.

Dog racing is not a sport, but a
cruelty that should not be allowed
in any state. The greyhounds are
bred for nothing more than to
race, and when they can no longer
do so, they are destroyed. And, if
those bred for racing are not con-
sidered good enough, they are im-
mediately destroyed. Though the
dogs run around the track in pur-
suit of a wooden rabbit, they are
trained to chase their prey with

live animals . . .
i Gayle Birk
:Braewick, Houston 77096

still missing Monday, said Torrey
Payne, 42, owner of C & C.

Los Angeies County. Sheriff’s
Detective le‘iike Bornman said a
special task i‘orce was set up to find
Daniels. (3.": Monday afternoon,
Bornman «d Daniels’ car was
seen by daié‘tECllVCS in a service
station at 4:5...1 Street and Vermont
Avenue in i:.-;suth-Central Los An-

geles.

The susr :et reportedly jumped
into his <3... and led officers on a
short pin-:45... fleeing on feet after

the veneei. crashed at Vernon
Avenue and Broadway. Detectives
lost him am called in their own
dogs, one i. :am the Sheriff’s Ile—
partment a.~.;.i one from the Los
Angeles he? ice Department.

The 1:.) dog picked up the
scent and ﬂiund Daniels in the
crawl spar. beneath a structure on
46th Stress". between Grand and
Broadway. ii; rnman said. The sus—
pect lost the a.- iCOUl’ltCI‘.

He was é‘aooked at Firestone
Sheriff’s §;»s-s,_z:.ion on suspicion of
grand theft, arson and willful cru-
elty to arm-,als. Bail was set at
$50,000.

AliOthei‘ man, Chester Hill, 25,
was arrested in mid-September,
but charge-a. against him were
dropped and he was released.

 




 

 

DALLAS TIMES HERALD - October 29, 1986

DEAR DALLAS

 

Hearing-impaired kids get
chance to ‘chat’ with chimp

By MAGGIE KENNEDY

Dear Dallas columnist

EWS CONFERENCES often are

unpredictable, but this one has to

rank among the most unusual. It
certainly was the quietest.

Seven youngsters in the ﬁrst through
third grades, all deaf or partially deaf,
were asking a chimpanzee questions in
sign language. That’s not all. The chimp
was answering them in sign language.

Simple questions and answers, to be
sure. Things such aswhat’s your favor-
ite food? “Sweet food,” the chimp said
in sign. What else do you like? “Give
me drink,” he replied with his ﬁngers.
What do you like to do? The chimpanzee
replied by hugging himself over and
over.

Michael the Chimpanzee, star of mov-
ies, television and commercials, knows
about 250 words in American sign lan—
guage. He’s most familiar with those
concerning food and play because that’s
what he thinks about the most, his train—
er said.

Michael demonstrated his communica-
tion skills Monday to an auditorium full
of fascinated hearing—impaired students
at Stonewall Jackson Elementary
School. Helping out was trainer Dr. Ken
Decroo, 40, one of the owners of the
Wild Animal Training Center in River—
side, Calif., which supplies animals for
movies and television.

At one point in the program, a student
asked if Michael could draw. “Sure,” De—

' croo responded, handing Michael a mark-
er and pulling the chimp’s red director’s
chair up to an easel holding a large sheet
of blank, white paper. Michael quickly
slashed a half—dozen black streaks across
the paper. When he ﬁnished, Decroo
asked in sign languagewhat he was draw-
ing. The chimp replied “spider” in sign.

Decroo started working with Michael
when the chimp was 2 and owned by an~
other trainer. Intensive training in sign
language didn’t begin until two years ago
when Michael got a part in the movie
“Animal Behavior” starring Karen Allen
and Armand Assante.

“What sign language has given us is a
window into the chimpanzee’s brain that
we’ve never had before,” Decroo said. “We
know- there is high intellect there and
what we’re getting is an approximation of
linguistic behavior.”

Since moving to Decroo’s center, Mi~
chael is experiencing a busy acting career.
He’s had starring roles in commercials for
Fruit Roll-Ups. Dr Pepper. Schweppes

 

 

Paul Iverson / Dallas Times Herald

Michael the signing chimp waits for a question from the kids

 

 

M. . . . . Paul Iverson / Dallas Times Herald
ichael the signing chimp and trainer Dr. Ken Decroo respond to- questions
from hearing-impaired children at Stonewall Jackson Elementary.

 

 




Tonic and the California Egg Advisory
. Board. Michael’s role in a “Simon and Si—
mon” episode in which he used sign to
identify a murderer won Decroo a “Patsy"
award, the equivalent of the Academy
Award for animal trainers, from the
American Humane Association. Michael’s
movies include “The Signs of Growth,” in
which he plays a signing chimp who helps
a young deaf boy come to grips with his
handicap, and “Astronaut and Son,” in
which the brains of Michael and actor
Cliff DeYoung become transferred during
a trip in outer space.

Ken Decroo’s credentials are heavy in

academic research. He has a doctorate in
primatology, was a member of the land-
mark Washoe Project that ﬁrst taught
chimps sign language at the University of
Nevada-Reno, and he helped develop- the
“Harpo Project” in which Harpo, a capu-
chin monkey, was trained to help a quad-
riplegic human in routine tasks such as
turning pages and turning lights and tele-
vision on and off. As a physical anthropol-
ogist, Decroo has studied primate behavior
for 15 years and pondered the relationship
between language and thought.

Fluent in sign language. Decroo also did
graduate research on deaf children of deaf
parents and their acquisition of langiiage
at the California School for the Deaf at
Riverside.

His WGi‘ls". training primates for research
lead to jugs—r. as: trainer and technical advis-

er on feature ﬁlms in 1980, and Decroo
soon found himself more often on the
movie set than in the lab.

“I enjoy it so much,” he said. “I like the
travel and the money is very good. I sort
of went through the back door, but this
has freed me to be able to afford the work
I want to do. I still consider it serious re-
search.”

Decroo operates a nature camp for deaf
children at his l,500~acre wild—animal cen—
ter with its 20;} l' elephants, tigers, os—
triches and other “trained but not tamed”
wildlife and wants to develop a similar
program for blind and deaf-blind children.

“A lot of these kids; are afraid to trust
adults, but they aren’t afraid to trust ani-
mals,” he said. “Maybe if they can learn to
trust animals, they will learn to trust
adults."

FT. LAUDERDALE SUN-SENTINEL - 10/27/86

County
to pick up
animals

Humane Society ends
serv1ce for injuries

 

By AVIDO D. KHAHAIFA
Staff Writer

Time was, if the neighbors were away
and their dog got hit by a car and suffered a
broken leg, someone called the Humane
Society. .

Not anymore.

Early this month, Broward County’s Ani-
mal Control Division took over answering
calls on injured animals. Thus ended a
long-standing contract between Animal
Control and the Humane Society for that
serv1ce.

The move was agreeable to both sides,
and the only points left to smooth out are
making certain people call the right agen—
cy and determining if Animal Controi will
need more money, peOple or equipment to
do the job.

“Frankly, I think we can do a better job
with what we have in—house,” said Larry
Atwell, assistant director for Animal Con-
trol. “We have more available staff on call
at any time.”

The Humane Society agrees. Clynne
Morgan, director of deveIOpment for the
society, said the Humane Society has only
two drivers available for calls on injured
EELEJLS Animal Control has it: drivers
available, seven days a week, said Atwell.

The switch occurred after the Humane
Society reeeested more meaey ta previde
the service. The society’s contract with the
county provided a little more than half of
what it was costing to pick up animals,
Morgan said.

The Humane Society submitted a budget
request that reflected its actual cost and
the county decided it could do the job more
cheaply, she said.

“It was just the matter of economics. It
was net a matter (If how 8' Marxian/e Seci»
ety was doing,” Morgan said. “To me, it
makes much more sense. It will be less of a
drain on our budget.”

The only problem now is getting people
to call the right agency.

Lani Wigand, director of education for
the Humane Society, said the society still is
getting calls to pick up injured animals, al-
though not as many as when the change

first took place.\

./

ontrol has not in-

creased its staff or resources
ing whether more is needed.

1
.2

Most people just tend to think that the
Humane Society and Animal Control are

one and the same, she said.
Atwell said Animal i

/‘

, but is study-

ply

pickup calls,

For now, the injured animal calls sim

have been added to the usual

to be working, said

, who spends a let of time in schools
nts on the change.

’5 early to tell, but everyone

Animal Control’s te’iephone number is

The system appears
765-5893.

Wigand

“Of course it
seems happy with the service Animal Con-

and has fielded comma?
trol is previding," she said.

 




THE TAMPA TRIBUNE—TIMES, Sunday, November 2, 1986

 

#4 Los Angeles Times photos by TONY BARNARD

Even at $1,400 apiece, Neiman-Marcus is finding takers for its leopard of the living room, the California
Spangled. The new breed of cat, produced from eight other breeds, is the company’s His-Her Christmas gift

for 1986. '

New spotted cat is hot catalog item

 




The striking spotted
house cats will be
delivered personally
by the breeder,
Neiman-Marcus says.

‘ sy LYNN smnoss

 

__.—.—-

Los Angeles Times

LOS ANGELES -— What’s a ,1

Who used to write “Lassie” sorts-ts

doing raising cats?

, Ask Paul Casey, who has the hast-r
test breed in town -— the new Cali-

fornia Spangled domestic cat that
Nelman-Marcus is featuring in its
Christmas catalog for 81,400 apiece.
~ Casey, a 51-year-old screen
writer and playwright has spent the
last 15 years developing the new
breed of cat by combining eight sif-
ferent breeds of domestic asses
from four continents. The result is a
striking spotted house cat that looks
like a miniature wild one.

"People have been fascia: ted
with spotted cats since cave (is 1’3,”
said Casey. “There were drawing: of
them on cave walls, and stone cs. v-
inga. li‘hey’ve turned up in art end
literature for centuries. People tsve
spotted cats. "

They certainly do, if sales of the '-

California Spangled at Neiman-Mar-
can can be used as a barometer. In
the first 2% weeks since the Christ-
mas catalog came but, 53 orders had
been taken, and there is near a
waiting list for the unborn nit-tats.
“We're really well pleased with
the response.” said Barbara Free
man of Neiman-Marcus’ Dallas store
who handles inquires about the Cali-
fornia Spangled cats. "We've gotten
300‘or 400 calls. I do a lot of talking
in a day’s time.”' ‘ ‘ '
' Neiman-Marcus is selling the
California Spangled cat as its exclu-
sive His-Hers Christmas gift for

1986. Each year the store lists a '
unique, and expensive, item is this

2;: 343w. " ii “ﬁt"

.‘ i.»

category. Among its past offerings
have been his and her airplanes,
mini-submarines, full-length fur

, _ bathrobes and Chinese junks.

It is not the first year, though,
that Neiman-Marcus has come up
with an animal as one of its unusual
gift suggestions. In 1967, there were
his~and~her camels; 1980, his-and-
her ostriches; and in 1983, his-and
her Shar-pei puppies, a Chinese
breed of dog with lots of wrinkles.

In its catalog, Neiman Marcus
advertises the California Spangled
as “leopards for your living room
a purring affectionate pet with the
look of the wild. A jaguar whose
natural habitat is your lap, not the

jungle. " .
The store also promises its cus-

tomers that their new cats will be
personally delivered by Casey or
one of his representatives. Each cat
comes with its registration docu-
ment, and pedigree, a histttry about
the new breed, descriptions! stand-
ards for the breed and medical
records. “ '

New owners of California Span-
gleds become members of the Cali-
fornia Spangled Cat Association and
will receive newsletters about the
breed.

“I’m going to start out delivering
all of them myself, ” said (3 asey. “But

I have a feeling it's going to be a»

really big rush around Christmas
time. We just had three kittens the
other night. They normally have

from three to five. And we are ex»
pecting four more litters between-

now and Christmas.”
Casey decided to name his new

breed “spangie " rather than “spot-‘

ted” because there already are

recognized classes of cats called the ’,

spotted tabby and the oclcat, also a
spotted breed. .
Casey estimated that he spent

about 8200, 000 developing his pure-

bred cat over a 15-year period.

“Now is the first time I’ll be mak- '

lng anything on them” he said, ex-
plaining that he receives a percent-
age of the 81, 400 for each cat. “They

(Neiman Marcus representatives)

2.; x ..L
.r

 

Paul Casey spent 15 years and about $200. 000 developing the
California Spangled cat breed

_ asked me not to say a dollar figure.

They have been really sensational
people to w0rk with. They’re paying
for the naval and expenses to de-
liver them. ” 7

The eight domestic feline blood-
llnes that Casey used in the Califor-
nia Spangled are: Siamese. spotted,
sliver, Manx, Abyssinian, cat of the

Nile, brown tabby, Malayan traplcal»

house cat and a spotted silver long-
hair.
“I’m not a cat breeder,” be ex-

plained. “That’s not my Profession. I

was planning to develop the cat, I

wasn’t planning for a marketing pro- '

gram like this."

A native of Los Angeles, Casey

said he decided to begin developing
a new breed of spotted domestic cat

' after a 1971 trip to Africa, where he

visited with Louis $.13. Leakey. Casey
said that he and the famed anthro-

pologist, who died in 1972, had spent -

“a lot of time talking about people' s
fascination with spotted cats. “
Casey's cats come in a variety of
colors: silver, bronze, black, char-
coal, gold, red, (silver) blue and

brown. There» is also a “snow leop-
ard” that is born white and develops ‘

its markings as it gets older. None of
the spangled cats reaches its full
color and final coat texture until
about 12 to 18 months of age.
They are not large cats. The fe-
males weigh from 8 to ill pounds;
males, 10 to 12. The dominant-color
cats usually have brown eyes; the re-
cessive-colored “snow leopards"

» have blue ones.

“We’re aiming for the brown
eyes," Casey said. “They' re hard to
get in domestic cats. But they give

the cat more of the look of a wild,

one.”

i‘ 7 an)"
a- '... u‘.




TAMPA TRIBUNE - Oct. 29, 1986
._ Dear Ann Landers: I am ashamed of myself and .
need some advice. Six weeks ago. my beloved friend evas atlng a s
I‘Buddy” died of cancer. I can’t seem to get myself to- .
gether. " : -
' Don’t tell me “time is a great healer” or “family and
friends will help you.” More bum advice: “Take a trip or
become involved in volunteer work.” None of this
worked for me because Buddy was my dog.
., . Everyone I have talked to says, “What’s the matter
if fill you anyway? With all the terrible things that are
ppening to people, you can’t stop blubbering because
your dog died?” Honestly, Ann, I can’t help it. Every
lime I come home from work I expect Buddy to greet
line at the door and I start to cry.
'2 1’ .‘Am I crazy? Have you ever heard of this before? Is
‘there anywhere I can go to get help? — Sick-At-Heart
Guy In San Diego -_
Dear San Diego: No, you aren’t crazy, you’ve lost a
"dear friend and it’s OK to grieve. Run, don’t walk to the

\Chastain Cup

, nearest dog poundwand get yourself another dog.

 

Ann
Land“ _

There are dozens of homeless mutts out there
waiting for a guy like you to come and rescue them.

I promise you’ll be glad you did.

”Raging dog ‘
terrorizes :

family in. car 1

TORONTO (UPI) - A raging

and frothing bull terrier trapped a
,, family of five inside a station’wagon
for an hour, shaking the car and flat-
tening its tires until police shot the

dog and ended the “nightmare,” the 1.

family said Tuesday. ,.

“When I slowed down to turn into
my driveway, the thing came out of
the dark and was coming through
the air and hit the side of'the car,”

. John Maney said, recalling the inci-
dent early Saturday ln ’St. Catha-

rines, about 70 miles west of Toron-.

to. “It was terrifying. It was a night-
fmare.” « _ . ‘
Maney, 39, an operations clerk
for the St. Lawrence Seaway, said he
was driving home from a party with
his wife Sandra, 37, and children Mi-
lissa, 15, Paula, 12, and Larry, 10,
' when the 50-pound pit bull terrier at-
tacked a car in front of his 1983
Oldsmobile. '

 

. As he pulled into his driveway,

, the dog attacked his car, chewing

through all four tires and “thrash-

, .ing” at the vehicle for at least an
hour, Maney said.

“It started pulling and/it actually

' shook the car,” he said.

A' neighbor walking home

phoned the police and her father
stood guard in his own car with a

baseball bat until officers arrived

it ' and subsequently shot the dog With a

revolver, Maney said.

Maney’s account was confirmed
by Sgt. Clint Sears of the Niagara Re-
gional Police Force in St. Catha-

‘ rines.

‘ Inspector Frank Hampson of the
Lincoln County Humane Society said
the dog weighed about 50 pounds
and was 16 inches tall. The animal’s
brain was sent to a lab for rabies
testing

The attack was similar to a

f"‘_movie and book titled Cuio, written
' by Stephen King, about a killer dog

that traps a woman and her, child in

7' a car until she shoots the animal. _

 

benefit dinner
raises $50,000

’Twas the night before the Chas-
tain Stables Horse Show, but you
wouldn’t find this group of horse
lovers polishing tack and braiding
manes. They, like true horsemen,
were partying at the Chastain Cup
Dinner.

The recent $50-per~person din-
ner and auction at Callanwolde Fine

Arts Center, chaired by Marjorie

Vizelhann, benefited the Atlanta
Humane Society and the Crawford
Center for Therapeutic Horseman-
ship. The auction and the horse
show raised $50,000.

. Co-chair Linda Fame: and her
husband, Irwin, may have 65 horses
and a farm, but that doesn’t mean
she likes horses. “I’m scared to
death of horses,” she admitted at
the party.

After dinner, auctioneer Rod
Kibler limbered up his bullhorn and ‘
let his tongue fly. Karen and Dew-
ey White of White Fox Farm in
Suwanee snapped up a breeding to a
son of Seattle Slew for $1,000, but,
at times, the audience puzzled over
his sales pitch.

“I’m going to back it up,”
Kibler said, trying to up the price
on a four-wheel-drive truck. “It
doesn‘t make any difference to me
where we start. It’s where we’re at
when we get done.”

Gail Van Voorhis, Mrs. Vizeth-
ann’s sister from New York City,
watched the auction and then re-
marked, “It’s very different from
Sotheby’s. The auctioneer is always
English, and no one wants to let on
their bid.”

 




~ 12-8

A

”Girl recoVering from dog attack

Tabatha Thiel
remained hospitalized
' ' ednesday, the day
fter a dog tore open
ghe back of her head.

_ JEFF MANGUM
tribune Staff Writer

Despite the bandage and the
ores of Stitches stretching across
‘e back of her head, 4-year-old
» abatha Thiel’ s prognosis was look-
, ' up Wednesday — a day after a
, .og seized her head as she played
' tside.
.11: “She’s been talking on and off
about it,” said Lisa Thie1,Tabatha’s
other. "She didn’t see the dog. She
. heard something in the bushes
:Iand said ‘Daisy, is that you?’ ”
if. It did not turn out to be Daisy,a
:griendly mutt little Tabatha was
med to playing with while visting
{with her mother at a northeast
gampa duplex.
instead, it was a chained deg
ring cared for by a neighbor at
9165 it tracinth Ave, Apt. A.
at a"? 11 police originally the
ﬁeribed the dog as a pit butt 1e rrier,
rank Brown, the man taking care

the animal for his uncle since last

May, described it as “just a plain
1.?1d bulldog, not a pit.”

f: Hillsborough County Animal Con-
tol officials, who took custody of the
0g, were unavailable for comment
Wednesday. In dog attack cases,
however, a judge can order such ani-
1 destroyed in 1:9,.

'3‘" r551.»

:A-S' “~er

Fortunately for Tabatha M3
mother said, the dog did 111111..
the child’s face. The iacerr‘ 211::
were to the back of Tabatha's .

. “It knocked her down 11111111 a1; 1
, and started chewing on the back of
her head," said family friend Gene
Fisher. '

THE TAMPA TRIBUNE, Thursday. October 30, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

Lisa Thiel holds her daughter Tabatha and stands with son,

woven. ‘11: this tamity or e an before the dog attacked the

girl.

According to police, a woman liv-
ing nearby was ahie t pull the dog
from the child who: 1111 got up and
waiked away.

“When I got there Tabatha was
up and walking around the build-
ing,” Lisa Thiel said. “The blood was

just gushing.”
Fisher said Tabatha
will remain at Univ. 31*.
munity Hospital for 11.1 1
due to the incident.
. “It really tore us up pretty good,”
Fisher said.

_—

 

 

 




Ark set I

I DANVERS
Continued from Page 21

League of Breton
instead. Richard W. Bryant. §:xros-‘
ecuting state officer for the league.
said he will press cruelty to ani-
mal charges against Brian Wat-
son. 42. at" Essex. alleging that the
animals were mistreated and kept

 

 

 

t runs agI'O

in unsanitary and cramped quar-
ters.

Bryant said Watson had legally
kept the animals to rent for var-
ious occasions. include-"2g for rides
and television advertiaements.
But. authorities in June began in-
vestigating charges of animal cru—
elty against Watson, nut-i recently
some of his menageria. x: a aeized
and removed to a farm in New
Hampshire. Several of those ani—
mals mysteriously disappeared
last week. When they turned up.
at another New Hampshire farm.
other exotic creatures were also
found —- some under cruel condi-
tions. authorities say -- and taken
into official custody. ,

Authorities say the arrival of
the trailerful of animals in
Danvers was probably part of an—
other attempt by Watson to take
back the creatures.

The animals found yesterday.

including the 15-year-old Asian

elephant. Ruthie. were brought to
the Danvers disposal site in a trac-
tor trailer truck on Sunday.

Bryant said the driver of the
truck detached the trailer and
took off in the tractor. leaving a
note saying he had gone to have
the tractor’s brakes checked and
would be back.

Animal care workers removed
all but Ruthie to “an undisclosed
site." but were waiting at the

, Scene to determine how best to un-

load the 8.000-pound pachyderm.
Peter Brewer. an elephant trainer
from the S‘iouthwick Wild Animal
Farm in Mendon. was called in. At

5 pm. yesterday Ruthie still had
not been unloaded. and Caron
was telling his help they couldn't
keep her for a pet.

"Unloading Ruthie will be
quite a feat." Bryant said. "Ele-
phants are extremely dangerous
to both themselves and others. An
elephant tends to belong to its ma-
hout. an Indian word for an ele-
phant's keeper, which in this case
is Mr. Watson. who. i believe. is
presently in New Hampshire fac-
ing cruelty to animal charges
there.” Bryant said.

Mason Butterfield. chief of law
enforcement for the New Hamp-
shire Fish and Game Department.
said the state was seeking Watson
after a camel was reported sighted
Friday at Brookvale Farm in Ep-
ping. NH. and investigating au-
thorities found it. as well as an ele-
phant —- now presumed to be
Ruthie — two tigers. a lion. a leop-
ard and six monkeys. goats. geese
and several South American ro-
dents.

Bryant said the animals left in

. the trailer here Sunday were from
the Brookvale farm. “Mr. Watson

had apparently sneaked back in
and taken them.“ he said. Still un—
accounted for. Bryant said. were a
couple of horses. ponies and 35 or
50 rabbits.

Police said the camel and six

'monkeys found at Brookvale

Farm had been seized last week
from Watson’s Essex farm and
placed for safety at Southwick
Wild Animal Farm.

Rescue league officials said

d in Dam/era d1 1' mp

they had distributed photographs
of the camel and posted a $1.000
reward for its safe return.

Late yesterday afternoon. Wat-
son pleaded innocent in Milford
District Court to charges of break-
ing and entering in the nighttime
with intent to commit a felony.
larceny of property over $100 and
trespassing.

He was released after pasting

. $1.000 eash bail. according to Mil»

ford Patrolman Mark Bucchino.
He said Watson waived extradi-
tion in New Hampshire to answer
the Millard charges. Watson could
not be reached for comment yes-
terday.

Animal cruelty charges are
also pending against Watson be-
fore an Essex County grand jury.
Bryant said.

Bryant said officers first went
to Watson's Essex farm with a
search warrant in June after
hm ring reports of alleged abuse of
his: animals.

“Some of the animals were in
pretty rough shape and their
quarters were filthy. We have wit~
nesses who have seen him beating
the animals. This is the worst
case of cruelty i‘ve seen in my 15
years with the league." Bryant
said.

Bryant said animal workers
found “all kinds of domestic and
wild animals" c; Watson's farm.
some of them “13d. About 25 in
need of medical attention were
seized. In August. the league
seized about a dozen more. includ-
ing a camel. six monkeys and two
mountain lions. Bryant said.

 




THE BOSTON GLOBE - Oct. 28, 1986

A loa ed Ark set adrift runs

aground in a Danvers dump

l3y Gloria Negri
Globe Staff

DANVERS -‘ When Philip Caron, one of the own-
ers of Pro Disposal, a rubbish removal plant on Route
1, showed up for work yesterday morning he found
an abandoned trailer, an elephant named Ruthie. a
couple of donkeys, some ponies, sheep, goats and two
South American cavies. or small pigs. '

“I was completely astounded,” Caron said later.
“Monday mornings are usually a disaster around
here, but not this bad.”

Caron recalled seeing the trailer parked on his dis-
posal site when he passed it Sunday. But it wasn’t
until 6:30 yesterday morning, when he came to open

 

‘ “' “ hereWSa
u . that two of his mechanics told him, ’1‘
a2 elephant trunk sticking out the Side of the trail-

er.
o ’9 ‘6 t 1'
“l thou ht they were kidding, he said, bu ,1
wentover End, sure enough, there was the elephant ‘21
trunk sticking out and about 20 other animals’in—=
. side. It seemed~ like everyone was there but Noah.

Caron, whose business soon experienced a media
blitz, joked that the animals were an unusual item ,
for him‘. “Anytime anyone calls up and asks us to
remove an elephant, we call our competitors, he

said.
Yesterday, Caron called the Animal Rescue

l
l
l
l
l

, .

p ‘ Globe staff photo/Tom Lande
Ruthie, a 15-year-old Asian elephant, was part of the menagerie found yesterday in Danvers.

 




FT. LAUDERDALE SUN-SENTTNEL

October 28, 1986

The man-eating Komodo dragon has managed to survive time. Researchers new are
trying to make sure an aging female —- the last of its species in the U. S —- reproduces.

 

By MALCOLM W. BROWNE

The New York Times

The last Komodo dragon in the Unit-
ed States, an aging female whose poten-
tial mate died several months ago, may
yet become a mother and thereby help
her race of man-eating lizards survive,
thanks to a technique being pioneered
by scientists at the San Diego Zoo. .

Komodo dragons are intelligent, but
fearsome lizards that grow to 9 feet,
charge at high speed, are cranky as
crOcodiles and occasionally devour hu—
man beings

Named for the Island of Komodo, an
lB-mile—long dot of land in Indonesia’s
Lesser Sunda Archipelago, the Komodo
dragon is the largest lizard in the, world.

Although Komodo dragons face no
immediate threat of extinction, only an
estimated 7,000 of the animals exist, the
great majority of them confined to Ko-
modo and the nearby island of Flores.

According to Dr. John A. Phillips,
comparative physiologist at the San
Diego Zoo, the savannah grasses and
brush of Komodo can get as dry as tin-
der, and a major fire could devastate
the species. .

Several types of lizard in various
parts of the world, as well as sea turtles
and some other reptiles, face even more
precarious futures. The technique being
developed for San Diego’s lone dragon
may eventually save other reptile spe-
cies, he said.

“Reptiles get very little help from hu-
man beings for two reasons,” Phillips
said. “One is that they aren’t cuddly.
The Komodo dragon is as ugly a brute
as any animal there is. Another reason
is that the physiology of reptiles is so

 

 

 

 

 

The Associated Press

Komodo dragons grow up to 9 feet long and are cranky as crocodiles.

different from that of human beings
that reptiles are relatively useless for
medical research. You don’t get grants
from the National Institutes of Health
to study Komodo dragons, for in-
stance.”

“Personally,” Phillips added, “I like
elephants. But there are plenty of scien-
tists to look after elephants and other
mammals, so I feel a special obligation
to endangered lizards and other rep—
tiles. Someone has to try to save the

ugly species as well as the species be-
loved by one and all.”

At one time, several zoos in the Unit-
ed States, including New York’s Bronx
Zoo, owned specimens of the Komodo
dragon, all of them gifts from the gov~
ernment of Indonesia. But dragons have
become even rarer than. pandas in the
great zoos of the world.

The big reptiles, first discovered by
Western explorers in 1912, do not fare
well or reproduce in captivity, and the

facilities needed to keep them alive are
expensive. Their large enclosures must
be maintained at 100 degrees Fahren—
heit year round, and since the dragons
need ultraviolet radiation from-the sun,
they must live in greenhouses glazed
with a special plastic capable of trans-
mitting the needed wavelengths of light.

Scientists believe that Komodo drag-
ons rarely live more than 25 years. The
male owned by the San Diego Zoo was
about 20 when it died, and the surviving
female is about 18

“Luckily,” Phillips said, “we were
prepared for the male dragon’s death.
Just after he died we extracted some of
the animal’s semen, and it has been pre-
served frozen in liquid nitrogen.”

Phillips and his colleagues believe
that the female can be hrceu to ovulate
by administration ofa substance called
gonadotropin releasing hi1rmone,wmch
is commercially derived from chickens.
The hormone must be administered
continuously for about two weeks to in-
duce ovulation.

When the attempt to impregnate the
female Komodo dragon begins 1ater
this year, a capsule containing the hor-
mone will be implanted under a flap of
her skin. Inside the; capsule is a pump
powered by the osmotic pressure of the
animal’s own fluids to release the hor-
mone a little at a time. When ovulation
begins, impregnatwn by semen from
the deceased male dragon will be at-
tempted.

“A zoo is not just a custodian of indi-
vidual animals,” Phillips said. “A zoo
has a duty to help animals breed and
keep the Species going.”

 




' o

r
l "‘1

v ,5 A5
. war-I -
sags: *

.‘.‘L\f§
-\ - ‘1‘ Q2 4

.- ﬁ -
{‘5 ’5": 0' v:- -:

‘-
., , .

Dallas Morning News: ﬁZ’Jid W65

Jeff Lane of Dallas gets a shot of a great weekend,” bird watchers from the Dallas
horned owl into focus on Saturday after- area were able to view exhibition flights
noon at the Dallas Zoo. During “raptors by their feathered friends.

 

 

 

DALLAS
MORNING
NEWS
Oct. 27, 1986

 




The Toronto Globe and Mail

 

9/26/86

__._

?Anlm0'-ri9hl$.9"°UP§;Cite"Cwsllgsiestz
gorge boycott offGilletie'i-Co. products.

Canadian products; " . '~‘ Challenged by a reporter about 5
Ms Fain. 28. said her experiences her own makeup. Mrs. Miller said

denial of the charges and said its

: BY RUDY PLAT'EL testing meets “the highest possible

‘lhc Globe and Mail

 

Ursim: consumers to switch to

pails-Ewe iinnjtiiﬁis.“ SW‘i—‘ﬁfiﬁlt‘l‘;
tor a group as: animatwcii'zre orgt
nizations called for a boycott of Gil.
lt-ttc Co. products yesterday. saying
the U.S.-based company uses unnec.
essary. “crude. cruel and outdated"
tests on animals.

' The company responded with a

4'

standards of the industry.”

The boycott call was issued at
simultaneous news Cili‘ili'i‘tfi'ti‘tfﬁg is:
Toronto and Washington. D.C..
where reporters were shown a vi-
deotape that spokesmen said was
secretly made by Leslie Fain. 28. a
former animal-care technician at
Gillette's Maryland laboratory.
which_also tests the company's

 

THE MN GDOBE

asks boycou Of C

By Wendy Fe
Fobe Staf‘ir

A. ~' ’
5 '7’. $13006 '.‘ - -
f. L431"

. .. . _'; If" hi 31‘3“”?-
is; is“ of" 81:3. Gil-
estte tic. petunia charging the
Boston contpany is cruel to labora-
tory animals.

Gillette officials denied th
charges. .
At a press conference in Wash-

ington. members of ARK-ll. the in»

'ternational Animal Rights Coop-
erative. showed photographs tatt-
en by a former Gillette" employee
who worked in the company's
Medical Evaluation Laboratories
in Rockville. Md.

Leslie Fain. the former employ-
ee. described tests in which chemi-
cals were fed to rabbits or placed
on their skin or in their eyes. Doug
Kenneja. Giiiette sm’asman said
such tests are done to determine
whether products such as shaving
cream and deodorants will irritate
human eyes or skin. '

Kenney said Gillette uses mice.
rats. guinea pigs and rabbits in
the tests. Fain said the lab “will
haunt me for the rest of my life.“

Lori Gmen of ARK-n said the
tests are cruel and unnecessary

FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 26 19% _.

Animal Rights group

’ tt '
and caiied for the boycott until
Gillette stops the testing. -

Gillette ofﬁcials said their tabo;
ratories are ingested and certii
ﬂed by the American Association
for the Accreditation of Laborato
ry Animal Care and thawed by'
the US Department of Agriculture;

In a prepared statement after
the press conference, company of-
ficials said Gillette is exploring
animal testing alternatives

through the Johns Hopkins Cenf /

ter for Alternatives to Animal '
Testing and is also participating
in the center's efforts t modify
animal tasting to minigiize dis-3
comfort to the animals. . ,

"Until adequately validated al~'
ternatives are available. Gillette‘
will continue to use animals judi-j
ciously to assure that its products
are safe and, citiestiveﬁ said as".
Robert P. Giovacchini. vice prost-I
dent for corporate product integri-z
ty. ”We realize that this is an emo~l
tionai issue. However. we have a
moral and legal responsibility to
our customers for the safety of our,
products. and we also ize a
responsibility to the- humane
treatment of animals used to as:
sure that safety."

 

-’.'.
‘.- a!

during “,5 years at the lab “will
haunt me for the rest of my life."-
iss Toronto. representatives of the
'i‘at'onto Humane Society, the Men»
treat-based Canadian Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-

mals and Ark ii. an animal-rights ".
group. charged that-.animals'are ‘

undergoing needless suffering in the
Maryland laboratories in tests they
say arenot even required by law
and are often invalid and unreliable.
«The groups also accused Gillette
of trying to mislead consumers by
saying in correspondence that it no
longer uses one particular ’test.
Animal-welfare officials said they
subsequently obtained inter-office
memos indicating that the test is
still administered. . ' .
Gillette's response —‘ a three-
page statement prepared in Boston
and released in Canada through its

. Montreal office —- made no refer-
: ence to the allegations of mislead-

ing people who had written to it
about testing. . , ‘ '

The company quoted Dr. Robert
Giovacchini.Nice-president of cor-
porate product integrity.:as saying
“there are no currently available in
vitro‘(test, tube) alternatives to
animal testing (that are) validated
and accepted by the scientific
community and government
regulatory agencies." ,

The statement said several recent
methods show promise but valida.
tam may take several years.-

The laboratory videotape seen by
reporters showed animals. some

' apparently near death, undergoing
what appeared to its gissaiul testing. i

Most of the animais were rabbits.
some with shaved areas that were
red. swollen and apparently covered

- with wet discharge.

Another rabbit‘s head was swol-
len and apparently covered in dis-

. charge from its eye. into which a

narrator said technicians had put

. cosmetic substances. that would
- eventually blind it.

:Vicki Miller.' president of the
Toronto Humane Society, sari some

ua.HC05m‘t:§:I‘ T'tl:ia“8£‘il§?€f. insert re-

placed? StitLi'i manna sits: methods

J

that eliminate the need to cause

.. .sufferingand‘de‘at'h. til thousands of

animals.

1... .Calling the.oosmetic testing "an
.. vutﬁdnstryfs bad'hablig‘V Mrs. Miller
'- said a boycott is seen as the only

lever for change because there are
no laws or regulations against un-
necessary testing.

 

 

 

she was wearing “pain~free”vcos-
metics that have not caused death .

' and suffering to animals. She saiii

the boycott campaign will include a'

' plea for consumers to switch to such

products.

 

 




 

SAMPLE PRESS CLIPPINGS

40 THE WALL STREET JOURNAL FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1986

 

The Toronto Sun

1

9/26/86

 

 

~~~L 1:,"-

Socrety planning

 

oycott 0f Gi

'I.

. . _, p ‘_
t: .J . -1 .' V.
.96! » - A ‘ - ‘ ~ ' ~ -" ". ‘- i"
‘ ‘ i I; - ‘ "' ‘ ‘ . h ' ' "4 I ‘ ‘ . . .
‘ ' . m’r‘ ‘ . [.1 ~ . . .J‘
o - - ‘1.
.
. . . . .
h - m .
, . f - "ﬁ’kv’é-uy. .
' v'..“ , . I .
.4”. , .1: .. .. - .. . ‘. ‘ - ..
n - 4 a. ' '- .~' -
' 13-” ‘ :r' . _ . g . ,. 1,. ‘,
. ' r,. 1 .a_ ' . . ‘ .
v. . < . .. . , . ,.4 v
r- ._ . v_ ..a '. Q _ v
.; . . 4 . _ ., .‘

‘Ilfﬂd

.’-'h,
.‘v -, ﬁ":

..

V

v
.s.

 

TH_E TORONTO Humane Society says Gillette is abusing
animals — like this coopedup rabbit - in its cproduct
tests. It wants the company's products boycotte .

lette

By SAM PA7ZANO
Staff Writer

The Toronto Humane Society chairman yesterday
announced a campaign to boycott products manufac-
tured by the giant international Gillette Co.

The society wants Gillette to stop testing products on
animals Vicki Miller— who is also a leader of the ani-
mal rights group ARK II — told a press conference.

A second press conference in Washington, D C.
announced a similar boycott in the U S.

Reporters were shown a 12~minute video called Products
of Pain. It was taped covertly by Leslie Fain, a former
Gillette animalcare “technician.”

It shows animals in restraints with huge, open sores
from chemical tests.

"it’s a place that will haunt me for the rest of my
life," Fain says in a three-minute video testimonial.

“Technicians laughed while they put Foamy Shaving
Creme and Liquid Paper in rabbils’ eyes and callousl
force-fed Right Guard deodorant to animals 'in death
tests,” she says.

Gillette spokesman Denis Martin denied the charges in
Montreal. saying the tests “meet the highest possible stan-
dards while ensuring the safety of their products."

Animals must be used to test safe products for mil-
lions of consumers, Dr. Robert Giovacchini, a Gillette
vice-president, said in Boston yesterday.

Until acceptable alternatives are available he said
Gillette will continue to use animals “judiciously to assure
its products are safe and effective. "

But Miller said she used some European “cruelty-free"
cosmetics, created without animal testing.

 

 

 

Group Accuses Gillette Co.
0f Animal Cruelty in Tests

By a WALL STREET JOURNAL Stafchporicr
BOSTON — An animal-rights group
accused Gillette Co. of “animal cruelty"
in its laboratory tests, but Gillette said it
treats its test animals humanely.

The group. Ark 11. said it will boycott
Gillette products until the company
stops testing products on animals It
said it had photos and videotape of Gil
lette technicians putting shaving cream
in rabbits' eyes and force-feeding de-
odorant to other animals. Ark 11 said it
obtained the materials from Leslie Pain.
a former Gillette employee who took the
pictures surreptitiously while working in
a Gillette laboratory in Rockville Md.

A Gillette Spokesman confirmed that
Ms. Fain had worked for the company.
but said Gillette hadn't seen the photos
or videotape and couldn‘t comment.
However, the company said its labs are
inspected by the U. S. Department of Ag
riculture and meet “the highest possible
standards."

Gillette added that Ms. Fain who
quit last spring as an animal care tech
nician recently wrote the company ask
ing to be reinstated because she enjoyed
working for Gillette. An Ark 11 spokes-
woman said Ms. Fain had written hop-
ing to be rehired so she could take more
photos.

Ark 11 said it was founded in Canada
three years ago and is just starting to
enlist members in the U. S. It claims 5, -
000 to 10,000" members the spokes-
woman said.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE LONDON FREE PRESS, Friday, September 26, 1986

 

Anima

rights group Cites Gillette

Boycott urged oVer ‘untold agony’ in research

WASHINGTON (AP) —- A group of
animal rights activitists called
Thursday for a boycott of Gillette
Co. products. charging that the gi-
ant retailer is cruel to laboratory
animals.

Gillette officials denied the
charge.

”Behind all the flashy advertis-
ing lies untold animal agony." said
Lori Gruen ofARK-II. the interna-
tional animal rights co-operative.

The group called a news confer-
ence to display photos it said were
taken by a former employee of Gil-
lette Medical Evaluation Laborato-
ries in Rockville. Md.

The lab "will haunt me for the
rest of my life." said Leslie Fain.
who described tests in which

chemicals arefed to rabbits or
placed on the skin or in their eyes.
The tests are done to determine
whether various products such as
shaving cream and deodorants are
safe for human use.

Gruen charged that the animal
tests are cruel and unnecessary

and called for a boycott of Gillette,

products until the firm agrees to
halt animal testing.

The boycott call was issued at si-
multaneous news conferences in
Toronto and Washington.

In Toronto. representatives of
the Toronto Humane Society, the
Montreal-based Canadian Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals and Ark-II charged that
animals are undergoing needless

suffering in the Maryland laborato-
ries since the tests are not even
required by law and are often inva-
lid and unreliable. .

Vicki Miller. president of the To-
ronto Humane Society. said some
cosmetic manufacturers have re-
placed such testing with methods
that eliminate the need to cause
suffering and death to thousands of
animals.

Dave Fausch. Gillette's vice-

'president for public information.

said: “We vigorously deny charges
about animal abuse by this group.
We assert that we meet the highest
possible standards of the industry.
Our labs are inspected and certi-
fied by the American Association
for the Accreditation of Laboratory

Animal Care" and the US. agrlCUl°
ture department.

“We are committed to produce
products that are safe for our err.-
ployees to make and for consumers
to use." Fausch said.

Dr. Robert Gioeacchini. Gillette
vice-president for product 1ntegr1~
‘ty. said: "Until adequately validat~
ed alternatives are available. Gil-
lette will continue to use animals
judiciously to assure that its pro—
ducts are safe and effective. We re-
alize thatthis is an emotional issue.
However. we have a moral and le~
gal responsibility to our customem
for the safety of our products. and
we also recognize a responmbiliiy
to the humane treatment of ani-
mals to assure that safety "

 




Leslie Fain

Leslie Pain is a 28-year-old resident of Washington, D.C.
and a graduate of Florida-Atlantic University. She is also an
Animal Care Technician, registered with the American Association
of Laboratory Animal Sciences.

Leslie Fain has spent most of her life involved with
animals, as a technician, a pet owner and as a member of various
humane societies. She likes working with animals, caring for
them. In October of 1984, she accepted a position in the animal
care division of The Gillette Company's testing laboratory as an
Animal Care Trainee.

She began keeping a diary, taking photographs, and finally,
when she realized she wouldn't be able to endure her days in the
laboratory much longer, she secretly carried a camera inside and
filmed her associates at work. Later, with a file full of notes
and pictures, and reels of film, she approached_ the animal
protection group "Ark II", and asked what could be done.

This, she says, is why:

"I just spent the last year and a half of my life in a place
that will take the rest of my life to forget. I was an animal
care taker at Gillette and what I saw there still gives me
nightmares. The technicians abused the animals. I saw
technicians carrying rabbits by the ears. Swinging them.
Kicking rabbits that were struggling. Hitting rabbits. Banging
on the cages to try to get the animals to stop panicking and
struggling -- and banging on the cages only made the situation
worse. Technicians yelled at animals to stop the screaming.
They laughed as animals screeched in pain One technician's
favorite pastime was taunting and scaring the monkeys.

"Before I worked in a lab, I always thought the people
involved in research were all professionals and I had a general
respect for them. I was completely shocked by how unscientific
and inhumane the people who worked at Gillette were. For
example, when I asked the study director, John Gorley, how to
euthanize rats, he told me to 'kill them by hitting them over the
head with a rod'. He said injecting them was too much trouble,
'so now we just hit them'.

"Once I came across a rabbit with peeling, blistered skin
laying in agony in his cage, unable to walk. And I overheard two
lab technicians complaining that all the test substances they'd

been getting lately were boring. They said they wanted something
more exciting like carbonic acid.

 




"Another time, I was walking through the eye room and saw.
one technician grab a rabbit who had pus draining out of his
swollen eye and force the eye open to examine it under bright
light. I'd heard rabbits scream there before, but never like
that ... and I've heard that rabbit scream over and over again in

-a~- ‘ ' _,:;
my mima.

"Once, when I asked one technician what was wrong with a
group of white rats that were dying in a pile, she told me 'the
sleazy little bastards will piss on each other and be dead by
morning'. The rats had been force-fed shampoo in a death test.

"It seems like I was the one who always had to point out
that the animals were suffering. I remember so many instances
when animals appeared to have broken necks and backs, many times
rabbits had collars wedged in their mouths; sometimes I found
animals twisted around in the restraining devices or dehydrated
and barely able to move. Every time I pointed these things out,
I was teased about being so sensitive. But I was supposed to

have been there caring for animals -- I was an animal care
taker."

 




ARK [I The International Animal Rights Cooperative
9.0. Box 11049 Washington D.C. 20008

For Release at 10:00 am Contact: Lori Gruen
September 25, 1986 301-897-5429

INTERNATIONAL BOYCOTT ANNOUNCED
AFTER ANIMAL ABUSE EXPOSED AT GILLETTE COMPANY

At simultaneous press conferences in Washington, D.C. and
Toronto, Ontario, animal rights advocates announced their plans
to begin boycotting Gillette products until the company stops
testing on animals. The announcement, made by the international
animal protection organization, ARK II, came after a former
Gillette employee exposed photographic and video documentation of
animal cruelty in the Gillette laboratory.

Leslie Fain, who worked undercover in the laboratory for
over one year describes the Gillette laboratory as "a place that
will haunt me for the rear of my life. Technicians laughed while
they put Foamy Shaving Creme and Liquid Paper in rabbits eyes and
callc sly forcewfed Right Guard deodorant to animals in death
tests. I was shocked by how unscientific and inhumane the people
who worked at Gillette were."

According to Lori Gruen, Director of ARK II - US, "The
disposable attitude promoted by Gillette applies to more than
just razor blades. .Behind all the flashy advertising lies untold
animal agony, and the animals are forced to suffer for no reason.
Noted scientists have testified that product testing with animals
is invalid, unreliable, expensive, cruel, and it it not required
by law."

'9

"The shocking photographs, film footage, and internal
documentation obtained from this laboratory reveal a shameful
history of misrepresentations of the truth. Gillette‘s
assertions about the number of animals they use, the kind of
tests it performs, and the way they treat animals are patently
false. What are we supposed to think when Gillette tells us
their products are safe?"

Gruen says ARK II plans to boycott Gillette products
until they stop testing on animals. She says they expect that
the more than 2 million members of the humane community will join
the boycott. "Already networks are forming in Italy, France,
Australia, England, Spain, and Canada."

BLACK AND WHITE PHOTOS AND 3/4" VIDEO TAPES AVAILABLE

 




The International Animal Rights Cooperative
P.O. Box 11049 Washington, DC. 20008, (301) 897-5429

Dear Animal Advocate:

On September 25, ARK II exposed the multi-national Gillette
company. After working in the Gillette laboratory for a year and
a half, Leslie Fain, a former lab technician for Gillette, came
forward with shocking video, photographic, and written documentation
of animal cruelty and proof that Gillette has blatantly misrepresented
: the facts about what they do in the laboratory.

We had always thought that commercial animal experimentation
facilities were impenetrable. More than any other laboratories,
cosmetic and household product companies shroud themselves in
secrecy. Now we have the evidence we need to stop the hidden
suffering.

This case is just what is needed to put a long overdue end
to the use of animals in frivolous, unnecessary cosmetic and product
testing. We have formed the BOYCOTT GILLETTE COALITION to do just
that. The Coalition will boycott Gillette products until the company
stops testing on animals. In order for our efforts to be successful,
we need your support.

Here is how you can help:

Let us know that you will join the BOYCOTT GILLETTE COALITION.
Already leaders in the animal protection movement, such as
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), the National
Anti-Vivisection Society (NAVS), and Henry Spira's Coalitions

to Abolish the LDSO and Draize Tests are supporting the boycott.

Alert your members and the public through mailings, flyers, letters
to the editor of your local papers, etc.

Open a "Gillette Dumping Station" so concerned consumers can
rid themselves of products of pain.

Write letters of complaint to the Gillette Company, Prudential
Tower Building, Boston, Massachusetts, 02199 and to your elected
officials.

Contact us for further information.
We'd like to hear from you as soon as possible. Please give us
a call or drop us a note to let us know that you will join us in
ending the animals' pain.
Yours for Animals,
041an
Lori Gruen
Director

 




8E Fort Lauderdale News/Sun-Sentinel, Wednesday, October 29, 19 .

City can be happy home
for dog, expert reports

 

*- By RANDOLPH E. SCHMID

The Associated Press

For many people the image of a
dog in the city is one of frustration
andlimits resulting in an unhappy
animal. But animal expert Patricia
Curtis says that just isn’t the case.

FOr thousands of years dogs have
developed their relationship with
humans, and they can be happy
wherever peOple live as long as
they are well cared for, she reports.

Curtis, 3 Manhattan resident
who has been a dog and cat owner
for many years, carries the banner
of the joys of city pets for the Chi-
cago-based Pets Are Wonderful
Council, a non-profit group that
seeks to encourage pet ownership.

And at the same time Curtis also
is promoting her new book, The Ur-
ban Dog, a guide to understanding
and caring for dogs in the city envi-
ronment, just published by Bantam
Books.

Whether in city, suburb or coun-
try, dog ownership carries many
responsibilities. But especially in
cities “you really have to consider
your neighbors,” Curtis stresses.

'The first things that come to
mind are space for exercising the
pet, where can the animal relieve
itself, and noise.

“The truth is, dogs in the country
sleep most of the day, just like dogs
in the city,” Curtis observes, “they
just have more space to do it in.”

Regular exercise is important,
she points out, and taking the dog
for a walk also helps the human get
some exercise. It’s also a good way
to meet people, with dog walkers
often having a chance to chat as
their canines make introductions.

Obedience training is essential,
though, because there are too many
hazards for an overly rambunc-
tious dog in the city. And on the
streets they must be kept leashed
both for their protection and the
convenience of others.

, Most dogs take well to training,

though. They are intelligent and ea-
ger to learn.

As to fouling the sidewalks,
many types of sc00ps are available
to collect dog waste, and once ac-
customed to doing this, it is no big
problem for the owner, Curtis re-
phrts. _ "

' Once again, it is a simple matter
of being considerate of others. “A
few irresponsible owners give us
all a bad name,” she said.

'That too is the case for barking
animals.

'\» 3‘ Dogs who bark when left alone
are merely displaying stress, and
they can be taught to be quiet once
they become secure in their quar-
ters, she says. Sometimes it re-
quires special training, sometimes .
a second dog to keep them compa-
ny will do the trick.

:' While many people assume that
city dog owners should seek out the
smaller breeds, Curtis says large

dogs also can do well in cities if ex-
ercised regularly. Many larger
dogs are gentler than the smaller
varieties, so the main thing is to
learn about the breed and its needs
before bringing it home.

Because of their stable tempera-
ments, she recommends such
breeds as basset hound, border col-
lie, Boston terrier, soft-coated
Wheaten terrier and Shetland
Sheepdogs for city dwellers.

For city folks with children or
joggers who can provide more ex-
ercise, other good choices might be
beagles, English setters and golden
or Labrador retrievers, she said.

Finally, Curtis, like officials at
the Humane Society of the United
States and other pet experts, urges
potential dog owners to check their
local animal shelter for available
pets. These shelters contain many
excellent animals including some
purebred pooches available for
adoption.

 

 

 

 

ﬂlllllllllllllllllllllIll

’llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

e

‘ 2"“

ll

1 U . r
a f g. ’ ’ e -
lll ll ll ll llllllll llll llllllllllllllllllllllllllllﬁllll lmlllllllllllll llllllll ll lllllllllllllllll

, .
.-

Paarl/e Pas/term

When J. Roy Klingensmith of Ash-
land, Ohio, goes for a ride on his
moped he takes along his favorite
biking buddies — poodles Barney and
Chauncey. Ears flying in the breeze,
the lucky pooches enjoy riding in the
basket up front — so long as Klingen-
smith doesn't spend too much time
'~ stopped in a no barking zone!
llllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHill

l l

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll”llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHlIIIHIHHHHHHIHIIHIHHHHIHHImIIIiIiImmmmmmmmummuuummmrmmmmmumnmnmmm...numw . .,

l .

 




A’I‘LANTA JOURNAL - November 4, 1986

John Kassie:

Playful: pup plays havoc ’with

MIAMI —- Image is important to us all, no
matter how fervently we deny caring what other
people think, and I am convinced that image is
important to Hilary, our maiden—aunt cat.

It seemed outlandish, this idea that Hilary

would care about image. Not Hilary, the most

aloof of cats. But facts are facts. Certain conclu-
sions must be drawn from certain circumstances.
Plato and I have long agreed on that.

And the fact is that Hilary does indeed play

with the Boston terrier when she thinks nobody.

is looking. And staps abruptly, in mortification,
when she finds herself observed.

I have, in point of fact, never before seen Hi-
lary embarrassed, and I have known her for
years, since she was the smallest little solid-
black kitten in one of the many litters of kittens
' born at our house over the years.

Hilary was different, even as a kitten. She
was a no—nonsense cat as a child, then as now, a
thin, aristocratic intellectual, always a loner
who, in a different format, would have stayed
home doing her hemework and working on her
pressed-ﬂower collection while the other adoles-
cent girl cats were out doing flamingoyouth stuff.

. If human, she would have been wearing her
hair in a tight bun by age 30 and pursuing a ca-

reer in some line of work where she would have.
classified things. . ..

To say that Hilary has never been frivolous
is a mild way of putting it. She has never mar-
ried. She has never even had children This is a
unique accomplishment among the lady cats
around my home during the decades.

'

_. ‘s

m. ﬁr

Myﬁ'

  
  

a.
u
'v

x

I:
I.
3.

”W“

is.

For years now, she has reclined on r sofa
beside my wife, ignoring all other can which
come and go and certainly ignoring dogs...

Toward the last of the lifetime of our round,
brown and much-loved dog Nancy, Hilary and
Nancy became rather tolerant of each ether.
Nothing gooey. A mutual respect, rather, for
Nancy in her later years became autocratie her-
self. She and Hilary admired each other’s style a
bit and might, eventually, have attended an Elimi-
ly Dickinson poetry reading together.

But Hilary obviously considered all our ether
dogs and eats a bit common for her taste.

Along came Ryan.

Ryan is our new dog, a wildly uninhibited
Boston terrier who has, in succeeding Marley,
changed our life. He’s a little con artist of a
pooch who, like a small boy, is never still until
nap time when he abruptly topples, over sideways
in midmayhem, snores a haliuizour and then
starts all over again. .

, He has changed our landscaping (a fortrme in
chain-line fencing) and our hours (when iiyan
wants to play at midnight, everybody plays at
midnight) and our relatively prosaic g'r.lra;=.2;e;....zphy.
It is impossible to be around Ryan v“. howl-
ing in laughter, and his presence ﬂushes you do
things like run on the beach with him at 2 am.

Hilary totally ignored Ryan, or so I {insight
Hilary just snuggled up closer to Margery and
read Emily Dickinson. But Ryan, unlike any oth-
er life form around our house, was unimpressed
by Hilary. He badgered her, woofed at her, cir-
cled her. Hilary, typically, would simply stick
her #088 in the air and march upstairs.

hen. . . .

:lary’s alooi image

I came home from the poker game at three
one morning. Hilary was in a chair in the pool-
room. Her tail hung down... iiiyan would run at it.
Quickly, Hilary would raise her tail. Ryan would
run thumpingly into the wall, then do it again.

And again, and again, dniiriaus with joy, tongue

loliing. And I swear, Hilary was grinning.

' Finally, Ryan saw me, wOofed happily. Hi-
lary’s eyes widened. She marched swiftly past
me and out into the night.

“Hilary was embarrassed,” my wife ex-
plained. “Ryan makes her “forget her dignity and
it embarrasses her to be watched. I’ve seen her
do that a couple of times now.”

I walked into a back bedroom the other day
and, as heaven as my witness, Hilary and Ryan
were playing an involved game, jumping from
bed to bed and then rolling around on the floor
together in mock battle.

Again, Hilary looked ilusiered when she saw
me and walked out of the roam.

The topper came late Saturday when I got
out of bed and went downstairs to make a sand-
wich. There was Hilary, cimrtling, flat on her
back and pawing at the terrier. She was acting
more like a puppy than the puppy was.

Silently, I watched. They didn’t see me until,
involuntarily, I laughed. Hilary stood frozen, ob-
viously caught in an image-shattering act.

She then furiously swatted Ryan on the head,
claws out, and I know it was for my benefit.
(“Yipe!" Ryan squalled, astonished.) Hilary ran
out the door and stayed hidden all day Saturday.

Image is important to us all. An old-maid cat
is no exception. But Hilary may get some fun
out of life yet, if the terrier holds out.-——(c1986.)




THE HOUSTON POST -

 

Crew members of the whaling vessel Nisshin Maru wave as they depart from Yokohama Port.

TOKYO (UPI) - Japan’s only whaling ship
left Tuesday on its last scheduled expedition
to the Antarctic Ocean as the nation’s centu-
friesold industry wound down under pressure
' from environmentalists.

But even as the 23,100~ton Nisshin Maru left
V'Yokohama Port, about Ira; mil-ass southwest of
..'l“okyo, its Sﬂyear-old Skippez' refused to be-
","lieve the industry was dead. ""3. don’t think this
will be our last voyage,” said Yasushi ISO. “1
" believe that some day our traditional whaling
‘jfindustry will be revived.”

“We have to preserve ear whaling tech-
nique in preparation for the resurrection of
the industry someday,” he said.

A small group of well—wishers watched as
the ship - owned by Kyodo Hogei (Whaling)
Co., a joint company formed by Japanese fish—
eries firms ~— pulled out of port with its crew
of 231.

Under a resolution passed in 1982 by the

October 29, 1986

International Whaling Commission, or IWC,
Japan will stop commercial whaling in Ant-
arctica next spring. Japan also agreed to halt
whaling in its coastal waters in March 1988.

Japan, the world’s top whaling nation, was
forced to totally withdraw from commercial
whaling in the face of mounting pressure from
environmental groups at home and aboard.

The United States threatened to slash fish-v
ing quotas for Japanese boats operating insist
its ZOO-mile limit unless Japan stopped Whiz.
ing. Japan’s annual fish hauls in U.S. waters
exceed $800 million, compared to $75 millisn
for the whaling industry.

The Nisshin Maru will be joined at sea h;
four catcher boats scheduled Thursday to
leave Shimonoseki, a major fishing port in
western Japan.

The Japanese ﬂeet will operate in the Ant-

 

35335-1432;- g3)?” ﬁ‘e’s‘gwcgwm

 

AP photo

n ta rcti c t rip

arctic waters for about five months, hunting
for 1,941 minke whales under a 1984 quota by
the IWC. . ..

”in the 1960s, Japanese fisheries Operated
seven whaling fleets in the Antarctic, hauling
in. tens of thousands of whales annually. In-
(“fume from whaling amounted to about 30 per-
cent of their annual revenues.

Taking part in the last expedition was Yo-
snihisa Seko, a 56-year-old veteran harpooner
who takes pride in being a Whaler.

“We are not so stupid as to exterminate
whale resources. We will stop whaling when
whales become too few,” said Seko, an eighth-
generation Whaler.

He said environmentalist demands for a
halt to killing whales were “emotional” and
“cultural chauvinism.”

Industry officials say whale meat provides
about 1 percent of the Japanese protein intake
and dispute claims whales face extinction.

 

 




DAYTON DAILY NEWS/ JOURNAL HLRALD - October

British barkers arrive
Pup pamperers open
branch in Chicago

By Ray F ormanek Jr.
ASSOCIATED PRESS

CHICAGO -- Upscale dog lovers
like Elizabeth Taylor, Lauren Bacall
and Michael Jackson no longer have
to cross the Atlantic to purchase
pampered pedigrees now that an ex-
clusive London dog supplier has
opened its first US. branch.

“Our puppies never see the inside
of a kennel," said Claire Cordwell,
proprietress of British Dogs Chicago.
“They are placed with a family and
stay with people as soon as they are
able to leave their mother.”

The British have long enjoyed the
reputation of maintaining the purest
dog pedigrees because of their strict
breeding standards, Miss Cordwell
said.

“We have to warn people that a
dog imported from Britain will be a
little larger than the same breed
from the United States because dogs
here have been overbred,” said Miss
Cordwell, whose store is affiliated
with the exclusive Town and Coun-
try Dogs in London’s fashionable
Sloane Street District. ‘

“We are the only shop that I know
of which imports top-of-the-line
British dogs to be sold in a pet shop
setting.”

Prices for the upper-crust pups
start at $650 for some of the smaller
breeds, Miss Cordwell said in a re-
cent interview. German Shepherds,

Labrador Retrievers and other larger
breeds go for $1,200 or more.

Exotic breeds such as the current«
ly popular Cavalier King Charles
Spaniel bring even higher prices, she
said.

Miss Cordwell said veterinarian
fees, shots and freight charges also

. contribute to the high price.

Until Miss Cordwell opened her
shop on Chicago’s North Side about
six months ago, the availability of
British-bred dogs was largely limited
to celebrities and other jet-setters
who could afford to cross the Atlan-
tic to deal with breeders and brokers
such as Christopher Grievson, pro-
prietor of Town and Country.

“Grievson’s list of customers reads
like a Wire’s Who, ” said Miss Cord-
well, adding that he has supplied
dogs to the late Princess Grace of
Monaco, Cary Grant, Elizabeth Tay-
lor, Lauren Bacall, Jacqueline Onas-
sis, Michael Jackson and Elton John.

But money and a famous name is
no guarantee of being able to buy a
dog from the exclusive Chicago oper-
ation. Miss Cordwell says her supply
of puppies has been limited to pro-
tect the breeding program.

“Our breeding strains are kept
very pure,” Miss Cordwell said. “It’s
important that these puppies get a
good home and that our customers
will not exploit the breed they
purchase. .

“Therefore, we don’t export the

 

25, 1986

 

 

ASSOCIATED PRESS

Claire Cordwell, of British Dogs Chicago, with 2 Cavalier King Charles Spaniels and a Shih Tzu

dogs until they are 3 or 4 months old
and are able to withstand the jet-set-
ting lifestyle.”

Miss Cordwell said her sh0p does
not display or warehouse puppies
and most of the dogs sold have been
specially ordered.

Because the British Isles are free '

from rabies, the animals are not re—
quired to be quarantined upon their
arrival in the United States.

“I know of no other place in the
United States where I could have
bought an English-bred Cavalier

 

 

King Charles Spaniel,” said Dennis
Underwood, a Chicago antique deal-
er and British Dog customer.

“You know her dogs have been
treated well just by looking at
them.”

 




NATIONAL ENQUIRER ~ November 11, 1986

 

 

Amazing House Pets of Future

 

 

Miniature jungle animals, birds and sea creatures —-
scaled down and tamed by genetic engineering -— will be

popular house pets in the foreseeable future, say eXperts.
Dr. William Hanson, professor of biology at California State Uni-

 

FT. LAUDERDALE SUN-SENTINEL - Oct. 28, 1986

 

 

 

 

Drawing of rare woolly rhinoceros.

Rare rhinos found '

 

Sun-Sentinel wire services

A herd of shy, woolly rhinoceros has been discov-
ered in a remote Malaysian “Shangri—La” valley, a
trapical haven that may save the extremely rare
species from extinction.

The herd of at least five animals appears to be
healthy and breeding, said Julian Caldecott, a 30-
year-old British biologist who hiked for four days
into the remote valley in August after hearing a ru-
mor of the rhinos’ existence from native Malaysians.

“I was very excited because this is a chance to
save a species that seemed doomed,” Caldecott said
in an interview in New York last Saturday. “It is also
a reason and excuse to save this valley . . . it really is
like a lost valley of Shangri-La.”

The 250-square-mile valley is in an undisclosed re-
gion of the island of Borneo. It is surrounded by high
mountains and filled with lush vegetation, monkeys
and birds. he said.

versity, declared: “In
the early years of the

well see the creation of
the first mini~animal.
We have the technology

animal species.”

“Mini-pets will include 12-
inch elephants, lions and
tigers the size of house cats,
and eight—inch whales for
your aquarium, said re-
.searcher Brad Steiger, au—

 

21st century, we may

 

It is believed only 150 Sumatran two-horned —— or
Woolly ~— rhinoceros exist in Southeast Asra, where
they roamed in the thousands before the turn of the
cel'i‘tlilgmall, «Hoot-high rhinos —-— one of five rhinoc-
eros species — were hunted ruthlessly before World
War II for their horns, which were used in China to
make a medicine believed to reduce fever and cure
stomach cramps. Caldecott said remaining woolly
rhinos continue to be killed and their horns sold on

ck market.
mighty exist in ones and twos here and there, but
they are one of the most endangered specnes still in
existence,” he said. . _ d
The woolly is the smallest of the five Spec1esdag
closely resembles the woolly rhinoceros hunte y
prehistoric man in ice age EurOpe 30,000 years ago.

already to manipulate _.

MINI-ANIMALS will be popular in let century.

thor of “Brad Steiger Pre-
diets the Future.”

“These mini-pets will be
inexpensive, costing less
than one of today’s pedi-
greed poodles. They’ll be
easy to care for, obedient
and much less likely to need
veterinary care than today’s
house pets.”

Added Dr. Hanson: “Their
inherent ferocity will be re-
duced or even eliminated.”

Dr. Thomas Easton, a
theoretical biologist and fu~
turist, agreed: “The tech-
nology exists today through
experimental genetic engi-
neering.

“Scientists are currently
able to tranSplant genes, the
biological blueprints that

 

and make its various body
parts.”

Said Steiger: “Gorillas the
size of Barbie dolls will give
new meaning to the phrase,
‘More fun than a barrel of
monkeys.’

“Eagles and falcons the
size of parrots will be bred
with the intelligence and in-
stincts of homing pigeons.
Hippos the size of hamsters
will provide a real incentive
to get your 3-year~old son or
daughter into the bathtub.

“And these mini—pets will
not be vicious, cruel or de-
structive.

“You’ll never have to
worry about your miniature
lion or tiger clawing up the
furniture.” -
— LARRY HALEY

 

 

tell the animal how to design

 




 

 

’ t ‘ t l 3. ~ ‘Vr’m;
wi‘w ; {2333-},- \5-‘ l ,. . ‘
~ l. - l l M . Lb

 

 

 

NATIONAL ENQUIRER - November 11, 1986

 

 

”Look, Ma, no cavities!" Animal
keeper Carin Cloete, 23, gingerly
stretches out a toothbrush to clean the
bone-crushing teeth of‘a full-grown
crocodile at Hartbeespoort Dam Snake
and Animal Park in South Africa. In
the wild, little birds; called "crocodile
birds” peck away the food that gathers

 

be“ " teeth of the huge crea-
tures, but (3? the park it’s Cloete’s job.
”Pram ly, I‘m terrified each time I do it,
Liaise one bite and my arm would be
snapped off," she said. ”But we can’t
let the crocs suffer tooth decay.” She
uglier; a regular toothbrush and ordinary
toothpaste on the crocodile.

 

   

 

I

«I in m

FM“! "'jf‘l
‘ , f"
't

 

 




TAMPA TRIBUNE — October 31, 1986

FRONT PAGE lﬂiADLINE

Use of

By JIM SLOAN
Tribune Staff Writer

 

Calling the argument that medical re-
search on animals is humane “almost a blas-
phemy,” a circuit court judge Thursday
ended Hillsborough County’s 26-year policy
allowing use of pound animals for medical
research.

“Humane has a meaning,” said Judge
Vernon Evans in granting a permanent in-
junction against the policy. “It doesn’t have
one meaning for four-legged animals and
another for two—legged animals.”

‘ The county, Evans said, has been violat-
ing its own animal control ordinance since it

was adopted in 1981. The ordinance does not
give the county the option of supplying
pound animals for medical research.

The injunction means the county no
longer may supply pound animals to medi-
cal researchers at the University of South
Florida.

A USF spokesman said the ruling would
slow medical research and cost the unver-
sity thousands of dollars it doesn’t have.

The assistant county attorney who han-
dled the case said no decision had been
made on an appeal.

Humane Society officials called the per-
manent injunction a “victory,” but added,
“We don‘t consider it the end of the battle.”

A judge called the use of
animals for research
‘ ‘almost a blasphemy. ”

 

Evans, in a blistering attack from the
bench, rejected claims by county and USF
attorneys that medical research on pound
dogs and cats met ordinance requirements
of “humane disposal.”

. “Taking a live, healthy animal, subject-
ing it to surgical intervention and then keep-
ing it alive afterwards -— calling that hu-
mane is almost a blasphemy,” Evans said.

“There couldn’t be anything farther from
being humane than that.”

The county’s policy came under attack
in a suit by Phil Snyder, head of the Humane
Society of Tampa Bay. Snyder said the coun-
ty’s animal control ordinance did not allow
it to supply animals for medical research.

The county argued that donating pound
animals to USF was an “implied power”
under the ordinance.

After nearly five hours of testimony
Thursday, Evans said Snyder was “clearly
correct.”

poun

(1 animals in

SF labs bloc

“I frankly cannot follow the county’s ar-
gument that, somehow, this ordinance does-
n’t mean what it says,” he said. “How could

it possibly be any plainer?”

Assistant County Attorney Linda Renate
Hughes claimed the ordinance allowed the
county to dispose of pound animals in a “hu-
mane manner,” and that lab research at
USF met that criterion.

Evans, however, said humane disposal
“doesn’t mean sending them (pound ani-
mals) to the University of South Florida for
experimentation.”

“Humane means humane, whether you
are talking about animals or people," he

id.
sa “Government expects its citizens to obey

the law,” he said. “The citizen can
expect nothing less from his govern-
ment.”

With that, Evans said he would
issue a permanent injunction stop-
ping the county from supplying
pound animals for research.

Hillsborough County was the last
county in Florida to allow use of
pound animals for medical re-
search, making Thursday’s ruling a
landmark for Humane Society offi-
cials.

“We view this as being a victory,
but quite possible a temporary one,”
said Marc Paulhus, an officer for the
Humane Society of the United
States.

The county could appeal the rul-
ing or amend its ordinance to allow
pound seizure, he said.

“We intend to fight it out to the
end,” Paulhus said, vowing to seek
state and federal legislation banning
the practice known as pound sei-
zure.

Snyder said, “The end of pound
seizure is coming,” but predicted
Hillsborough County would seek an
amended ordinance.

“I wish they (the county commis-
sioners) would listen to the public,”
be said. “They’ve heard from the
public and they’ve heard from a
court of law.”

Nancy Ford, director of public
affairs for the USF medical school,
said she was “a bit surprised” by
Evans’ comments.

“He’s never been on our prem-
ises or asked us what we do,” she
said. “There is no doubt in my mind
that they (animals) are treated hu—
manely, and I work here every day.”

Ford said it ould cost the uni-
versity about 250,000 annually to
buy dogs from breeders. “We don’t
have that money on hand,” she said.
“It’s simply not in the budget.”

Thursday’s hearing centered on
whether USF’s experiments
amounted to humane disposal of
pound animals.

Under questioning by Hughes,
Dr. Don Smith, interim dean of the
college of medicine, said research
animals are anesthetized and “suf-

fer in no way from pain or urs ,
stress” during lab experinezrs

Paulhus, called to rebut Smut
testimony, referred to a meifi‘ai =
ticle that described an experimr
Smith conducted.

The experiment, designed to re .7
the effectiveness of painkillers,
volved putting animals in a spinrtiw
drum much like an electric clona—
dryer.

“It’s intended to create pater.
Paulhus said of the device. “it‘s it
tended to create trauma and shoclz. ‘

In his closing argument, Snytic‘ ~
attorney, Tom Sherwood, Sai-{f- t
county’s ordinance simply did
address the use of pound animals it“.
medical research.

“That’s not in the language, it":
not between the lines, it’s not in if???
margins, it’s nowhere,” he said.

Hughes said pound seizure is or:
implied power, backed by threr
separate County Commission resoai~
tions authorizing use of pound at;
mals in medical research.

“The county’s interpretation .
the ordinance has been diffuse."
than the court’s,” she said in r‘
spouse to Thursday’s ruling.

 




THE BOSTON GLOBE - October 29, 1986

 

 

 

Globe photo/Vito Starinskas

A 700-pound bull moose in Shrewsbury. Vt., has chosen an unusual mate. this year -~ 3 Hereford cow,
according to a Vermont Fish and Wildlife spokesman.

Mos se and Vermont cow "It

United Press International

SHREWSBURY. Vt. — The ro—
mantic capers of a 700-pound
moose courting a neighborhood
cow have attracted spectators
who have come from as far away
as Colorado to watch the unlikely
pairing.

“They‘ve nuzzled like they're
kissing but I ain’t seen no action."
said Larry Carrara. who owns the
Hereford that has apparently ac-
upted the moose’s advances.

Carrara said yesterday he

I!

woke up Saturday morning and‘
found the moose gazing at his
small herd of cows.

For the next three days, the
moose continued to stare and oc—
casionally nuzzle One particular
cow. A crowd of curious spectators
parked their cars and pickups in
front of Carrara’s farmhouse to
watch.

One of the spectators was Don-
ald Gallus of Mount Holly. a game
warden with the state Fish and
Wildlife Department. Gallus said

.5613 an O

(:Ott: mic
i

the moose is probably at least 2
years old — a teen-ager in moose
terms - and will probably leave by
the end of mating season in early
November.

But the moose is causing prol‘i
lems for Carrara. who said. ”
couldn’t feed his beef cow without
the moose charging him.

Gallus tried. to reassure Car—
rara that the moose's love was
just a temporary infatuation.
"He‘s got maybe a week left." he
said. ,

 

 

 

 

 




THE HOUSTON POST - October 27, 1986

We're forced to know latest on pets

Although we keep no pets (we do operate a
small chain of motels for roaches, but the rela-
tionship is tenant-landlord rather than pet-
owner and the tenants are mostly in various
attitudes of rigor mortis), we do manage to
keep up with cat— and dogdom healthwise and
sartorially. And even without the occasional
case history from our son the vet, who keeps us
informed on such pets as the python who swal-
lowed his feeding tube, which may be worth
some future column all its own.

One way we keep informed about pet fitness
and grooming is by casing the shelves of the
local health food store. It has parts of six
shelves in the vitamin section devoted to cat
and dog products. Spritz, for example. It
comes in spray cans and is a dog and cat “coat
enhancer.” And Pet Guard yeast and garlic
wafers, brewers’ yeast tablets with garlic, cat
formula nutritional supplement, natural ani-
mal bits (“all natural, promotes healthy skin
and coats”), anti-fatigue food tablets for dogs,
Pet-I—Cates (cat vitamins, “with vitamins A
and B, kelp, trace elements, dietary fiber and
the fabulous mineral transporters given to
dogs in Switzerland”). Also the usual tasty-
looking canned foods far dogs and cats, which
are presumably without any harmful additives
possibly to be found in your ordinary pet food.

When we did keep [111212, which was before we
moved into an apartnsa. 1'11 some years back, we
never bothered particularly about their health
as long as we kept food an their table and they
displayed no overt signs of illness. Even when
they were ill, they usuaéiy took care of their
own problem if it was a 11' 1ane case of stomach
upset or general quezgaszainess. They had their
own specific. A few blades of Bermuda or St.

Augustine nipped from the lawn. I wonder if _

 

 

today’s pets know how lucky they are, with
their owners buying them food and vitamins at
human health food stores. With all the interest
in fitness, you may even be seeing dog Nauti-
lus and cat aerobic studios. Jogging for dogs is
already in, though you seldom see them doing
it unaccompanied by master or mistress.

More interesting than pet fitness is what
pets, and their owners, are wearing these days.
We are kept an courant by a publication my
wife gets, The Pet Catalog. Why she gets it
we’ve never known. Maybe it goes out auto-
matically to all mothers of veterinarians,
though why that should be defies logic. Pet-
owning mothers of veterinarians are going to
get their pet goods through their sons at
reasonable discounts. We got some dog medi-
cine that way for our son the agent’s golden
retrievers. He does buy their food at regular
retail since the three of them eat a lot, and our
son the vet in Goleta is a long way to go (110
miles) for your dogs’ dinner, however much
you care for them.

The Pet Catalog provides for the various
needs of both pets and their owners. A four-

,legged raincoat, complete with hood for dog

and personalized long-sleeve sweatshirt with
silk-screened design of its breed for owner.

Really a wide range of raiment for both the
four- and two-footed. For owners, cat socks
(person socks with the words and heart sym-
bol, “I Q? Cats”), sweatshirts with a portrait of

‘ your pet hand-painted on it from a photograph,

cotton/acrylic jogging suit with cat picture
and paw prints on it (in pink, light blue or
gray), a quartz kitty watch (a cat on the face
and mice at 3, 6, 9 and 12), a “dorm shirt” with
a print of a long-tailed cat on it, a pink pompon
baseball cap with your favorite dog breed pic—
tured on it. And so on. The wearables are all
for women. Is this some kind of chauvinistic
notion that men don’t love their pets as much
as women do? Or maybe they just think that
real men don’t wear their dogs on their
sleeves. And the human wearables are almost
exclusively cat-oriented.

Dogs do get their due otherwise in The Pet
Catalogue. Raincoats, canopy beds, personal-
ized chains and leads, sweaters, scarves, T-
shirts, booties, personalized treat jars and
bowls, jeweled collars, toothpaste and pre-fab
doghouses.

For owners in the service of pets, as they
mostly all are, pet totes, grooming devices, cat
hair sweepers, don’t-stoop pooper scoops, up-
holstery pet-hair removers, medicines, food
dispensers and car safety belts.

There’s a doggy septic tank, too. Thing is,
the dog doesn’t use it directly. You still have to
do the shoveling. ,

And one thing for cats I’d like to have hu-
man-size, a Snoozie cat tunnel, which is a plush
pile pipe a cat can crawl into and get away
from it all. When I was a boy, culverts were
nice cool places to crawl into on a hot day, but
they weren’t plush-lined. Wouldn’t it be nice to
have one that was?

 




DENVER POST - October 28, 1986

0 er
0f pit bull

Once Sued

Child killed 3 years
after another attacked

By Steve Garnaas
Denver Post Staff Writer

_ The bwner of a pit bull terrier that attacked

and killed a 3—year-old Denver boy Sunday was
placed on probation three years ago after an-
other of his pit bulls seriously injured a young-
ster. -

.. That animal was destroyed, and a civil suit
was filed against owner Gilbert Troncosa.

' But the suit, filed by the parents of 8-year-old

. Felix Leyva, was dropped when a judge ruled
that Troncosa was unable to pay damages and
medical expenses

The boy’s family inCurred about $6,000 in
medical expenses stemming from the April 10,

3 1983, attack at 750 S. Federal Blvd.

. Denver lawyer Larry Martinez, who repre-
sented the Leyvas, was outraged this week
when he learned of the latest attack

“It made me furious that someone who Once

_ harbored an animal which nearly tore the leg
off a kid can continue to raise and breed the

_ same kind of animal in a residential area where

[janother animal has now killed a kid,” he said.

.3 In Sunday’s incident, a pit bull owned by

Troncosa that was chained in a carport attack-

§d 3-year-old Fernando Salazar of 1066 S. Clay

" The child, who was not being supervised, ap-
parently had wandered onto the property at
1093 S. Dale Court to pet the annual, authorities

83.1

jgtalThe boy died later at Denver General Hospi-

“3 in:

 

4A..

wrirwtm «arena

Owner Of deadly dog l
sued three years ago

EMT BULL from Page 1«A

 

Charges against Troncosa are
nding an investigation by the

,4 DB
’_ dty attorney’s office and the Den-
ver district attorney’s office.

Troncosa faces a city ordinance '

:j violation for harboring a Vicious

1. dog — a misdemeanor that carries

3’ a maximum fine of $999 and/or 180
days in jail.

But Denver homicide detectives

also are investigating whether
V *j Troncosa is guilty of felonies under
, criminalne
statutes.
' would have, to prove that Troncosa
' exhibited “

ence or child abuse
icials said prosecutors

ss deviance from the
standard 0
person would exercise.”

That would appear to be diffi-
cult. Assistant District Attorney
Chuck Lepley said it is clear that

Troncosa did not allow the pit bull
to roam freely. '

‘He can buy another’

In the meantime, officials said, E

there are no laws to prevent Tron-
cosa from continuing to harbor and
raise the animals.

Tom Moe J r

Said Assistant City Attorney
“Tomorrow, he can

buy another pit bull and put it in his

: back

yard.” E
In addition to looking into char-

?ges, officials have petitioned the
Denver County Court to have
Missy — the dog involved in Sun-
day s attack— destroyed.

“We have started proceedings to

E get a court order to allow us to put
the animal to sleep this wee ,”
said Dr. Harvard Larson, acting di-
rector of the Denver Animal Shel-
‘i ter.

Ahearinghasbeensetforl:30

BEm. Friday before County Judge

nan Campbell.
Larson said he was not aware of
any prior attacks involving Missy.

, But he said that, in addition to the
attack involving the 8-year-old vic-
' tim, some of Troncosa’s dogs have

5 been involved in other attacks.

He said one of Troncosa’s pit
bulls recently attacked a Michigan
college student, biting him on the
leg. The dog was held for observe-
tion and returned to Troncosa.

Attacks by pit bulls are not all
that uncommon, and Sunday’s
death is apt to rekindle debate
about the volatile nature of the

1 dogs.

Nationwide, six people have
been killed by pit bull terriers in
the past two years, according to
the National Centers for Disease

care that a reasonable

*A family photo of Fernando Sala-

zar, 3. who died at the hospital.

The pit bull terrier, Missy, is be-
ing held at a city shelter.

Control in Atlanta. In the past six

7 weeks alone, there have been sev-

en pit bull attacks in the United

- States.

In the Denver area in the past
four years, police reports indicate
pit bulls have attacked eight chil-

' dren and three adults. Sunday’s at-

tack was the first fatality.

‘Like a loaded gun’

“Most authorities agree that
having a pit bull is like having a
loaded gun- you don’t know when
it’s going to go off,” said Jennifer
Orme, an official at the American
Humane Association in Denver.

“Children running toward a dog
waving arms could be patterned in-
to an aggressive or threatening
manner to the dog,” she said.

Fred Salazar, 31, said his only
son loved and trusted all dogs.

“He wouldn’t provoke a dog to

attack,” Salazar said tearfully

Monday as he hugged a relative.
“He was only 3 and never would do
anything like that.”

 

 

 

 




THE DENVER POST

Oct. 18 , 1986

Putting animal hearts in humans predicted

By Jim Gibney
Special to the Denver Post

COLORADO SPRINGS — Ani-
mal hearts may replace human
hearts in transplant operations
within two to three years, famed
surgeon Dr. Christian Barnard pre-
dicted Friday at a news conference
at Memorial Hospital.

Barnard, 63, who performed the
world‘s first human heart trans-
plant =11 1967‘ in Cape Town, South
Africa, is in Colorado Springs for a
twe day seminar on critical care.
It’s being conducted at the Clarion
Hotel.

Barnard, who has performed 87-

heart transplants, told reporters
the hearts of baboons, pigs and
calves appear to offer the best se-
lection at this time if the rejection
factor can be eliminated. He said
he last performed a transplant op-
eration two weeks ago in Oklaho-
ma City where he teaches at Bap-
tist Medical Center.

“Heart transplant operations are
becoming routine and raise the

 

‘Once we solve rejection, there is no reason why
animal hearts cannot be used.’

Dr. Christian Barnard

 

get all the hearts from?’ ” he ask-
ed. “Once we solve rejection, there
is no reason why animal hearts
cannot be used.”

He said he experimented with
the hearts of chimpanzees prior to
performing his first human heart
operation and found them to be un-
satisfactory.

Barnard said heart transplant
surgery techniques haven’t varied
since he performed his first trans-
plantation on Dec. 3, 1967 .

But postoperative treatment has
improved, he said.

He noted that transplants in
South Africa cost about 10 percent
of such operations in the United
States.

cost in the United States is because
heart surgeons in this country con-
duct lengthy preoperative investi-
gations, calling in several consul-
tants before making a decision to
operate.

He also said the public shouldn’t
call a transplant operation a fail
ure just because the patient dies
after a year or two or three.

“The primary goal of medicine
is not to prolong life, but to im-
prove the quality of life, ” Barnard
emphasized, adding, “if we are
able to give them a better life, a 1
life without suffering, then we can— 1
not say the operation was a fail '
ure.”

One of his transplant patients

question: ‘Where are we going to Part of the reason for the high lived 13 years, he said.

Secret meetingleads to stolen dog’s r

By Betty Diet: Krebs
ARTS 15011011

 

 

Call this the case of the purloined
setter. .

'i any 1. Kelly, the Irish setter
sto1er1 last Tuesday from the car of
dancer and ballet master Michael
Thomas, is home again after a cloak-
and- -dagger exchange Monday in the
University of Dayton Arena’ 5 park-
ing lot.

Two Dayton Ballet officials said
they responded to an anonymous
phone call Monday, met three uniden-

 

The reward. he wa:'pr0mi~r1-1-;j

tified men and traded the $200 re-
ward for Kelly. By nightfall the setter
was on her way home.

“She was acting as if nothing had
happened and ‘Where’s my dinner?’ ”
said Dayian .. 11.191 jean G1;
’lan, who had helped negotiate the
rescue. .

“She’s back again," Thomas said
over and over again, one hand on Kel-

ly’s head as he kept an eye on the
dancers busy with rehearsals for
Swan Lake on Tuesday

‘ Because Thomas’ hearing loss was
worsening, he had been getting in-
creasingly desperate about finding
Kelly. Although the setter had not

Michael Thomas and Kelly

been trained as a hearing dog, she
instinctively knew how to look after
him and listen for the telephone.

Ballet officials said the recovery
began Monday with the last of a se-
ries of phOne calls from an unidenti-

fied man The caller wanted to knew
about the reward and at one poi: 1:
said “maybe my kids might a 11:1.
and look for the dog.’ rinai y r111
fered to meet someone who conic:
change the reward for the. dog.

would be paid —- no questions ashes

Galen said the man refused to meat.
at the Kroger lot at 3‘24; Either
Ave, where the dog had beer. 1 ‘.
from Thomas car The exchar
would take piiifffa 1: 1.1.1 lib ‘
parking lot.

Galan and ballet company 11"111' .
ing director Jim Aihrighz firiffalb
following events

They went ahead of the. -
Upon time, circling the im in the? t1” '

Then a large, light-colored ’
model car entered the lot

They did see that three men- 11.1...

in the car. The one who transhrref

Kelly also handed Aibright her C111. ,
with the identification tagg.

 




HOUSTON CHRONICLE

 

These pups, photographed years ago at the
Houston Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

- October 16, 1986

Chronicle File

Animals, seemed to be searching for the right
human to take them home.

Volunteer saving pets from ’pearly gates’

 

By DAVID ALEXANDER
United Press international

 

PHILADELPHIA —— Each weekend,
the cages Open for death-row pets at a
suburban humane society shelter, and
the most unwanted, unloved dogs and
cats get 'a temporary reprieve.

They spend the day in a shady corner
of a shOpping mall, barking, meowing
and wagging their tails near a sign that
reads: “Help! Our time is up. Please
take us home.”

The animals are wards of Eileen
Chamberlain, a self-employed sales-
woman and humane society volunteer
whose activist approach to pet adop-
tion has saved 73 dogs and cats from
certain death in the past 14 weeks.

“I would like to realize a time,” she
said, “when our shelter no longer has
any creature that is unwanted.”

Chamberlain. 38, has a long way to
go before she reaches her goal of end-
ing pet euthanasia in Montgomery
County, Pa, by finding homes for aban-
doned animals. The county humane so-
ciety shelter last year destroyed some
7,000 unwanted and unclaimed animals.

“It's going to take a lot of work,” she

said. “It’s going to take time.”
Chamberlain, who has been a volun—
teer at the county animal shelter for

' about 10 years, said she first became

an animal activist after reading a
newspaper advertisement about the
plight of laboratory animals.

“This sort of hit a nerve,” she said.
“(The animals’) capacity for both physi-
cal and emotional feeling was so deep
that I thought this was something I
wanted to pursue.”

Taking pets to a shopping mall,
where they are more readily seen by
people in the community, has raised
awareness of the problem faced by the
shelter, which is run by the county’s
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

“Most (people) are quite sympa-
thetic,” Chamberlain said. “Just by my
own rough guesstimate, we get about
one adoption out of every 100 peOple
that see us.”

Chamberlain, who has adopted two
abandoned cats for herself, said she
also uses the visits to the mall to edu-
cate the public about the importance of
neutering and the responsibilities of
owning a pet.

Most pets are left at the humane so-

ciety shelter because their owners
move or go on vacation. Some even
give their animals away to punish a
spouse or child, said Chamberlain.

“If they can imagine themselves do—
ing anything like that, they should not
adOpt a pet to begin with," she said.

Chamberlain’s program has won the
interest and the support of the humane
society and many of the people who see
her at work in the shopping malls.

“It seems to be very successful at
this point,” said John Hendler, the di-
rector of the shelter where Chamber-
lain picks up the pets for her weekend
jaunts.

He said the shelter was considering
expanding the program to include
more shopping centers and more ani-
mals, and buying a van to transport the
pets.

Not everyone is receptive to the pro-
gram. Some pe0ple have ridiculed her
for taking the plight of condemned ani-
mals seriously. Despite that, she said
the program is worth it.

“The best part," she said, “is that
there are . . . pets with homes that oth-
erwise would have hit the puppy dog
pearly gates by now."

 




The Silver River tourist park is

in hot water because descendants
of Tarzan ’s jungle denizens are
into mischief away from their turf

,L .
.13; _
.‘ V. '
. ‘ _. 4
.- wk
1 ‘4 i'i
a“: i ,- .' "
3r ' ': ‘.
3 vs.»
xlri, ."‘.'.
. ‘ r

By PAT LEISNER
ASSOCIATED PRESS

 

SILVER SPRINGS, Fla.

ince the 19305 when Tarzan swung through junglelike foliage along the
S pristine Silver River, wild monkeys have roamed free at this popular old

tourist attraction in Central Florida. . .

Johnny Weismuller and the rest of the cast filmed the last Tarzan mov1e here
half a century ago, but they left behind some friends, a colony of rhesus
monkeys, hardy little primates that grow to about 30 pounds. . ‘

The rub is. descendants of Tarzan‘s monkeys started wandering off their
home turf, sometimes biting people and stealing food. Their days on the Silver

iver a ear to be numbered. '
R Statepisildlife officials say the monkeys have got to be confined.

Officials of the 4,000-acre Silver Springs park say cages or fences are out of
the question. It would ruin the ambiance of the place. Instead, they re trying to
find new homes for the monkeys, with little luck so far.

Meanwhile, animal rights activists are watching to make sure the monkeys
don‘t wind up as guinea pigs, like 200 of their predecessors who were sold to an

' al research laborator .
anliinthe 50 years since mi Tarzan series was filmed here, the rhesus monkey
penulation has swelled, at one point numbering more than 400 in troops on both
sides of the crystal clear Silver River. . . _ . .

The monkeys are favorites of the tourists plying the river in boats With glass
bottoms. watching schools of fish and other underwater creatures. Underwater
limestone caves shimmer in the sunlight. giving the river a Silvery look.

it's an idyllic setting, providing scenery for such movres as the James Bond
thrillers “Never Say Never Again” and “Moonraker,” “Cross Creek,” “Smokey
and the Bandit” and the Lloyd Bridges TV series, “Sea Hunt.”

The tour boats quietly glide past stately bald cypress and water oaks. As the
boats swing past the monkey colonies, they trip an electric eye that sets off a
recorded Tarzan yell. The boat captains stop briefly to toss slices of bread to the
monkeys who scamper to the water’s edge for the handouts.

Sometimes Tarzan hollers when no boat is near. Some clever monkeys have
discovered how to trip the jungle cry.

Silver Springs is the only place in the country where these animals can be
seen in the wild, according to researchers. The rhesus monkeys are intelligent,
the researchers say, almost like humans in the way they care for their young,
their sense of family and ordered social structure.

But young primates venture into the surrounding countryside in search of a
mate. They do not inbreed, and thus the journeys at times become long and
lonely for a species native to India, not Florida. a

State wildlife officials protested that strays were biting humans, stealing
their food, ravaging citrus groves and invading the nearby Ocala National
Forest where they compete with native species.

State authorities say 17 monkey attacks were'reported between 1977 and
1983, and in June 1984 a 4-year-old Alabama boy was bitten on the head in the
park and had to undergo painful rabies shots.

Game officers say rhesus monkeys have been sighted scavenging garbage
bins across the road from the park, in back yards in nearby Ocala and running
along the St. Johns River, 60 to 70 miles away.

The Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission ordered Silver Springs
to confine or get rid of about 80 of the monkeys that live on the north side of the
river. That’s the colony that lives closest to State Rd. 40 and ignores the rules to
stay put. .

Silver Springs rejected confining the monkeys, saying it was impractical and
would ruin the natural setting that draws tourists.

The owners two years ago thinned the monkey population, h0ping to ease the
problems, but instead created more. They trapped and sold 217 of the monkeys
to an animal laboratory supply house, triggering a public outcry from animal
rights activists.

This time, Silver Springs has asked humane groups and animal rights groups
to help find the monkeys a new home so they don’t wind up in laboratory
research.

Animal rights leaders insist the monkeys are getting a bum rap. They dispute
the state‘s statistics, insisting there have been few attacks and that they were
minor and in every case provoked. They blame a marauding bachelor band of
young male outcasts.

Only 6 of the 17 reported attacks involved Silver Springs monkeys, said Linda
Wolfe, a primatologist at the Universty of Florida who has been studying these
monkeys since 1980. In each case, the attack was invited by humans who tried to
feed or cuddle the simians, she said.

“They don't deliberately attack people,” she said. “They are not a danger to
the public.”

Wolfe sides with National Animal Rights Inc., Pe0p1e for the Ethical Treat-
ment of Animals and the Humane Society of the United States, which want the
state to grant a reprieve and let the monkeys stay. They say selective steriliza-
tion would control the p0pulation.

But the state is digging in its heels.

“Sterilized monkeys can still bite and still escape from the property,” said
Ma j. Kyle Hill of the commission’s law enforcement division. “Silver Springs
can keep every one of them, if they keep them on their property and keep them
from biting people."

9861 ‘19 19q0130 - HEITVHG NIVId CINV'IEIAEI'TD

 




lave Warren, director of marketin

problems
in private

Hills said state authorities wrote 811
them, “Listen, we’ve given you two
agreement made in 1984 to contain

g at Silver Springs, said one of the

is that the river is a public waterway, accessible to people who come

boats and hand-feed the monkeys despite warning signs.

years and you have not com
them

the problem taken care of immediately.”

About 18 months ago Silver Sprin
some tr00p on the north side of the
the territorial primates didn’t like

home.

According to Mike Jacobs, Operations director, 60 monke
since the state clamped down.

rounded

A gibbon is one of the an

have been accused of ro

imals visitors can watch at the Silver Springs, Fla
aming from the area and attacking people.

ver Springs officials in mid-April and told

plied with an
so that they don’t bite folks.

We want

gs tried unsuccessfully to trap the trouble-
river and relocate it on the other side. But
mingling, jumped in the river and headed

ys have been caught
They are being kept in holding pens until all are
up and a new home is found.

rn

., tourist attraction. The park’s rhesus monkeys

 




NATIONAL ENQUIRER - November 11, 1986

These Heroes

Are Top Dogs

They’re just ordinary people; working with their own dogs,
but they’ve tunneled through the rubble of collapsed buildings to

find Mexico City earthquake victims .. .

missing children . . . discovered
the bodies of drowning victims

underwater . . .

They’re known as the California
Rescue Dog Association —— and law-
men call them heroes!

“It’s a wonderful organization and we
couldn’t get along without them,” said Dep-
uty Sheriff Ward Redman, search and res-
cue coordinator of the Calaveras County
Sheriff’s Dept.

The volunteer organization was found-
ed nine years ago. Members own and train
their own dogs and even pay their own ex-
penses on rescue missions.

Last year alone, the 30-team organiza—
tion —- a team consists of a dog and a han~
dler — was called on for 142 missions. Their
searches found 83 people alive, and 17 dead.

Housewife Shirley Hammond, a 52-
year-old mother of three from Palo Alto,
Calif, is a typical member. She recalls crawl-

RESCUE WORKER shares a tender moment with his

lifesaving canine helpers.

tracked and rescued

 

They Find Earthquake
Victims, Track Dawn
Missing Children and
Even Salve Murders!

 

 

 

 

ing through the rubble of a collapsed build- , f .

ing in Mexico City with her Doberman
pinscher, Cinnamon, crawling ahead of her.

“I’ll never forget the frantic pounding _
of my heart as I inched my way through that .‘
cement tunnel with my courageous Cinna- ‘,
mon. Strange thoughts went through my
mind as I thought of the tons of rubble over ' ‘

SEARCH FOR SURVIVORS: A tracking dog and his own-
er look far victims after last year '5 Mexico earthquake.

me. Suddenly, Cinnamon came to a blockage
and could go no further.

“Another handler with a small, tough
Australian Sheepdog arriv-
ed. That dog was able to
.‘ worm its way through to lo-

cate two live victims.

“Later more victims were

found in the same building.”

In another case, dogs were

able to locate a drowning vic-

tim underwater.

. “We searched the banks of

, 3 a huge reservoir for hours,”
’ " recalled Mrs. Hammond.

1 “But finally the dogs

. ' barked an alert. A diver

found the body right at the
spot the dogs had indicated.

‘ “When a body is underwa-
, ter it decomposes and min-
* ute bubbles of gas rise to the
surface. That’s what the
dogs smelled.”
In a 1983 mission, rescue
dog teams scoured the Sierra
Mountains for a lost boy who

 

was not only mentally re-
tarded, but needed to take
several types of medication
to avoid seizures.

“We followed his trail
through the thick bush and
woods for hours,” said Mrs.
Hammond. “Finally we came
across him.

“If we hadn’t found him,
he probably would have died
of exposure.”

In 1985, 10 rescue dog
teams were called in on the
investigation of alleged mass
murderer Leonard Lake.

“We started off looking
for evidence in one murder
-— and we ended up finding
evidence for some 20 mur-
ders,” said the organization’s
coordinator, Larry Peabody.
“We found bones, bodies and
physical evidence such as

buckets containing wallets

 

 

 

and other identifications,
which had been buried.

“Once again, our amazing
dogs had done us proud.”

— JAMES McCANDLlSH

 




NATIONAL IzNQUIRER - November 11, 1986

.assie 3 First Owner Ga ve Away
lIis Problem Pet — Am! a Fortune

QUIRER installment from the book --
seen here for the first time anywhere
—— Javna reveals the incredible true
stories of Lassie, "Baretta" star Fred
the Cockatoo and Ben the Rat.

show called “Baretta” pre-
miered. It starred Robert
Blake as a tough-talking
street cop who had a pet
cockatoo named Fred. “Ba-
retta” was instantly popular.

One of the main reasons:
Fred. People loved to watch
him do tricks, get “drunk” or
talk back to Baretta.

Cockatoos are normally
very intelligent birds, but
Fred was exceptional. He
could learn any given behav-
ior in a matter of four or five
minutes.

Fred got mad if the people
FRED THE COCKATOO handling him “didn’t know
In January 1975 a cop what they were doing.” Once

. ‘ Blake pretended to be giving
-- Fred commands on the set,
., waving his hands around,
_ and the bird went nuts, chas-
ing Blake around the room.

_ His most popular trick was
.. lying on his back and “drink-
ing” booze from a bottle.
‘f Fred’s trainer taught this to
«f Fred by putting sunflower
. seeds in the bottle. To get
them out, Fred had to roll
over and hold the bottle up-
iu. side down with his legs.
. Of course, Fred never
drank real liquor. But his

' " , ‘1 ’ trick with the bottle was
BARETTA'S BIRD Fred the cockotoo delighted TV very convincing to viewers.
viewers by ”drinking” from o booze bottle.

reryone loves animal actors ~— and
Ithor John lavna has collected the
Iscinating stories of the most famous
nes of all for his new book, "Animal
uperstars." In this exclusive EN-

! JOHN JAVNA
The original Lassie in the
ovie “Lassie Come Home”
15 really a male collie
Imed Pal.

Pal was not a beloved pet.
e was brought to trainer
udd Weatherwax in the
3405 by an irate owner who
Iuldn’t stop him from bark-
Ig. After Weatherwax had
Ired Pal of the problem,
Ie owner didn’t want him
ack. So Rudd got Lassie for
'ee.

Pal wasn’t pedigreed, but
e was worth more than any
og in America. In 1950, he
rossed over $250, 000 from

5M3 5.:

 

films and merchandise. By
1956, he was earning $100,-
000 a year from the “Lassie”
TV series alone. Pal and the
other dogs who played
Lassie remained top earners
for over 35 years.

In 1975, Esquire magazine
named Lassie one of the
“Great American Things,”
along with Marilyn Monroe
and Walter Cronkite.

***

 

 

 

Fred’s trainer Ray Ber-

 

 

L___________________—__—__________

Rats can earn a lot of
cheese for their owners. Di~
Sesso was paid $100 a day for
each starring rat, and $500 a
day for each mob of rats.
Ironically, as their trainer,
he was paid only $62 a day

Actors who are working
with rats for the first time
can be a bit queasy about it.
So DiSesso demonstrated
how well-trained and harm-
less his animals were -—- he
lay down and let them
swarm all over him.

Back in 1972, Ben became
' the first rat ever to have a
No 1 song sung about him. It
was a love song. recorded
J by, Michael Jackson!

r..-;,5!' .
-. ,,, _. ' ,, .~ ,4 .
JV .
. I - ,--
. _,“ - , 4*
’31,” *5: ' .
. .s . "I _‘ z
I ’4' I. 3
. \
5...; . ,- ‘ I ' v
J‘! . .-. '. ‘ . r
v, ’ I. _
J ‘1 I / \ '.-
. . ,

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

NN... -

‘hsm E

SUPERDOG: Lossie’ s trainer Rudd Weatherwax got him
for free and turned the collie into on American legend.

 

wick swore that Fred put to-
gether sentences on his own.

“Fred didn’t trust Robert
Blake at all,” Berwick says.
“In one scene Fred was sup-
posed to hang upside down
on Blake’s fingers. We re-
hearsed it with me carrying
him upside down, but he re-
fused to let go and give him-
self up to Blake, because he
thought he might drop him.

“Finally Blake pulled him
off of my finger and Fred

 

started yelling, ‘Help! Help!
Don’t hurt Fred.’ He said it
three times, and you know
what? We had never trained
him to say that.”
i * *
BEN THE RAT

Ben the Rat was the Bela
Lugosi of the animal world.
Typecast as a bloodthirsty
villain in the movies “Wil-
lard” and “Ben,” he was
really a friendly, harmless
creature -- frightened audi-
ences didn’t realize that he
was just following a script.

Ben’s trainer, Moe DiSesso,
has trained over 4,000 rats.
The one chosen to play Ben
could do tricks 200 times in a
row without missing.




HOUSTON CHRONICLE - October 27, 1986

‘ 33%.,
u__>‘ﬁ" .
-—
.'.‘,',
..“-X"
a} . .
. 1,

. 2'1: . . L131, . " 4
«.
, ‘ .0 A
L ‘ I
”5' ;~ .
. . t ‘ ,
,1" L'

Famed conservationist ﬁghting to save wildlife

 

By ISAAC REHERT
Baltimore Sun

She’s kndwn as the “Lady of the Gi-
raffes.” Pictures of her with Daisy, one
of the 18-foot-tall pets that roam freely
on her lawn in Nairobi, Kenya, have
become commonplace around the
World. So have pictures of movie stars
such as Richard Chamberlain and
Brooke Shields feeding and petting
them.

She has written six books and has
lectured on East Africa all over the
United States. A CBS special about her
life called The Last Giraffe has been
run and rerun on late night television
for years. Now her latest book, A FaII-
jng Star, the Story of her romantic love
affair with her late husband, Jock, is
being made into a two-hour CBS spe-
cial starring Lee Remick.

But on a trip to her native Baltimore
—' part of a coast-to-coast fund-raising

. tour - fame and success were the last
things on Betty Leslie-Melville’s mind.
During an interview in the living room
of her daughter Dancy Mills’ home in
Baltimore County, she said her biggest
concern was money. A piece of land
her giraffes need to walk across to
reach the forest where they feed is
about to be deveIOped. She wants to -
needs to —— buy it. If it is developed,
the giraffes must go, and her nature
center must go, and her program to
teach the Kenyan ple about their
own heritage of A rican wildlife will
probably go, too.

“As long as the land remains in for-
est, the giraffes are a treasure,” she
said, “and we can easily convince pet»

le of that. But if it’s deveIOped, they
become a pest, and they’ll be poached,
and there’s nothing in the world we
can do to prevent it. It’s up to us. The

Kenya government is sympathetic, but
. they have too many other roblems.
It’s a. very poor country. I now we’ve
done a lot, but if we don’t get that land,
it may all go up in smoke.”

She looked slightly harried as she
answered questions about her lifestyle
in East. Africa. and how she got so far
from Charm City. Her dress was typi-
cally Baltimorean~brown tweed suit.
. beige turtleneck blouse. pink lipstick.

: red nails. eyes framed in dark

 

 

shadow—far different from the jeans.
j sneakers and unpainted face that char-

acterize her appearance at home in
Africa. Her eyes are brownish yel-

low—~“the color of lion’s eyes." she
said. Occasionally. she lit up a ciga-
rette, then snuffed it out quickly with
the comment, “I recently quit, but this
Situation . . .I’ve been falling back
again. .

Betty Leslie-Melville was born in

 

Baltimore in 1927, one of two daugh-
ters of a doctor who died when she was
10. She graduated in 1945 from Forest
Park High School, married Dancy
Bruce, a banker, had three children,
taught nurser school in Dickeyville
and modeled ashions at lunchtime. “I
saw my future all laid out for me." she
said. “Conventional and predictable.
One day I’d be active in Junior League.
That was it.”

But then in 1958 a friend named
Helen Harrison became a nun and was
sent to the White Sisters convent in
Kenya; and in response to an invita-
tion, Leslie-Melville agreed to visit her
there. She spent two weeks and re-
turned a convert. “I was captivated by
the country,” she said. “It’s a disease.
The smell of it, the feel of it. It’s some-
thing magical.” When she returned,
her husband said, “I’m glad you’ve got
that out of your system," and she
thought, “I’ve only just begun.”

“It took me two years to convince
him to visit Kenya,” she said. “But fi-
nally, we took the kids—~they were
then 6, 7 and 12—and all of us went. We
rented a Land Rover and drove four
days across the Serengeti. It was in-
sane. We could have been ripped apart
by lions. But we weren’t. By the time
our visit was over, Dan was hooked,
too. He agreed to give up banking, and
we created a company organizing the
first photographic safaris for interna-
tional visitors. One of our first clients
was Mike Wallace, who did a piece
about us for a program called RM.
East he was doing at the time."

In 1962, the marriage with Dan
Bruce broke up, and shortly thereafter
she met Jock Leslie-Melville, a tall,
handsome, unconventional Briton
whose family had immigrated to Ke-
nya in 1919 to start a dairy industry.
He had been born in England, but grew
no in Kenva and had favored the inde-

in Keny a

pizndence'movement from Britain. Be

fore independence in 1963, he worked
for the Man Man. an organization
which Betty Leﬂie-Melville said was
painted incorrectly by the. Eng-
lish-speaking press as anti-white. It
was not, she said; it was just a local
faction in a Kikuyu civil war. Betty
and Jock immediately fell in love. and
were married as soon as they were le-
gally able. '
The break-up with Bruce was ami-
cable, and Jock joined them in running
the safari business. Jock and Betty .
bought a 22er stone mansxon built
in 1932 by Sir David Duncan on 1? .
acres of land in the outskirts of Nai—
robi and abandoned when the indepen-
dence movement began. The house
was just a few minutes from the home
of Karen Blixen who. under the pen .
name of Isak Dinesen, had made an in-

ternational reputation as a writer.

Shortly after they moved in. a friend
told them about a herd of 130 Roth-
schild giraffes living on a ranch that
were about to be exterminated -— the
last of a breed discovered by Walter
Rothschild in 1942. The owner had just
sold the ranch, it was being subdivided.
and there was no question that the gi-
raffes would now be poached. Would
the Leslie-Melvilles provide a home
for a young giraffe, just to keep the
Species from dying out? They did that.
and began raising money to relocate
the animals.

“That’s how we got Daisy,” Betty
Leslie-Melville recalled. “You can‘t
believe how beautiful she was, with the
longest eyelashes you ever saw and a
17-inch-long tongue. Wild animals have
to imprint on somebody, and Daisv
picked Jock, and that was it — heibe—
came her mother. She wouldn‘t let him
out of her sight. They are so loving.
When he’d leave in the car. she‘d just
stand there staring sadly down the
road, and when he returned she‘d trot
down and push her neck into the car
and insist on kissing him. We decided
she ought to have a companion, so we
took another giraffe, this time a male.
We named him Marlon Brando after
my favorite actor."

 




News got out, and a film company
came to make The Last Giraffe. The
company caught three more wild gi-
raffes. and when they left, the Les-
lie-Melville giraffe p0pulation was up
to five. There have been a few losses,
but even more gains through normal
breeding, and now the number is eight.
Living in a mansion in their African
paradise, the couple realized that most

Kenyans had never seen the wildlife of
their country, or even its vegetation.

“There are a million pe0ple in Nai-
robi, and most of them live in card-
board boxes and have never been out
of the city," she explained. “They’ve
never seen a tree, never seen a stream
and certainly have never had sight of a
lion or rhino or a giraffe. Once when
we had peOple working in the house,
one of them saw a giraffe and ran up
to me shrieking. ‘I just saw the biggest
dog in the world.’ We thought about it
and realized they have no cars and no
books and no TV; how would they know
about these things? .

“So we got some buses and every
day brought youngsters from town up
to our place to see the animals. The
forest around us, we were told by a
botanist, was primeval forest, with 124
species of birds and wart hogs and an-
te10pe — all kinds of wild animals. We
built a nature center up on stilts, and
provided some grain so they could feed
the giraffes. We gave the children milk
and cookies, and it was terrifically
gratifying to hear the way they
squealed with delight.

“PeOple would say to us, ‘Why do
you pay so much attention to animals
when there’s so much human misery?’
The answer is that these animals are
Kenya’s best. natural resource. They
don't have coal or oil and manganese,
and there‘s no industry — except the
tourist industry. Thousands of people
come each year from all over the
world to see these wild animals, and
that creates thousands of jobs as
guides, road builders, cooks and wait-
,ers in lodges, looking after the tourists.
It‘s the country’s main source of for- '

eign currency.

“We see our nature center as conser-
vation education. One day these chil—
dren will be governing Kenya. How
can we expect them to care about
these creatures if they‘ve never known
them? Of course, there’s another rea-
son for saving them. Rhinos have been
evolving here for 80 million years.
What right do we have to wipe them
out now? Once they're gone, we can no
more re-create them than a Michelan-
gelo painting.”

She said the government is aware of
conservation but must concern itself
with more pressing needs. The aver-
age cash income is only $270 a year,
and most people live at a subsistence
level. There are laws against poaching,
but they are hard to enforce. Hunters
kill giraffes for their tails, which are
used to make bracelets, and they kill
rhinoceros for their horns —— not. as

many people believe, for use as an
aphrodisiac, but rather in other forms
of quack medicine. and for use as dag-
ger handles in Arab countries.

In 1978, the Leslie—Melvilles founded
the non-profit African Fund for Endan-
gered Wildlife, which has become a
force in all aspects of wildlife conser-
vation. It has been instrumental in cre-
ating a unique Camel Corps, an organi-
zation of game wardens mounted on
camels. Camels move silently through
forest and bush, so this corps is more
effective than wardens in motorized
vehicles which provide poachers no-
tice that they are coming.

“We’ve had our successes,” she said,
“but we’ve had some-miserable fail- ,
ures, too. There’s an Arab billionaire. .
with interests in Kenya. Wé'as‘k‘ed him "

 

if he‘d contribute to help save the
Rothschild giraffe, and he answered he
wouldn’t because with ’a name like" '.
Rothschild, they had to be Jewish. We 1
asked the DuPont company to create a 5'
fake rhino horn for use as dagger han- i
dles. But they wouldn’t. They said each
rhino horn is individual, and it would

be too much trouble for them to turn

out such a product.” ‘

Her sadness was evident as she
talked of Jock‘s death and of Dan . ’
Bruce’s death. Jock died in 1984 in a“ :=,
Towson nursing home of a malignant.
brain tumor. And Dan, who remained a i:
good friend. died in Baltimore recently .,
of a heart attack. .. I ~ ::

Betty has been carrying on the work 9
with the help of her two sons. One of.
them, Rick Bruce, heads AFEW in ~
Nairobi. He is married to an English ,
woman, and they have a 2-year-old son
who, she said, “can’t see anything un- .
usual about having giraffes on the
lawn and takes it for granted that ev-
eryone does.” McDonnell. Bruce, who is If
{married to a surgeon, is in Baltimore,
heading up the international headquar- -
ters of AFEW, which is located in the
basement of Dan Bruce’s house on
Schenley Road.

“I’ve been lucky to have lived in the
overlap of the primitive world and the
sophisticated world,” Betty Les-
lie—Melville said. “I don’t regret a min-
ute of it. My mother and my sister
keep asking me when I‘ll come home.
They never understand how I can pre
fer to live in Africa. I tell them you’ve
got to follow your own drumbeat. The

Junior League would never "have filled
:ned up. I knowI‘ve done..what I‘ve had
‘ 0 0.”. - , .. . . .

 

Betty Leslie—Melville visits with her 3,000~pound, 18-foot—tali giraffe, Marlon, at home in Kenya.

 




/

:7“
K .

g , n

v

\

/ ,
1/“ .1 f} , . I/ if,"
[Vi/L :’ Lg/ Wag/1w

 

 

The Denver Post / Jim Richardson
‘This started as 'a hobby and turned into an obsession.’ says M.L. Warne of his SOC-animal collection of game trophies.

Hunter with 300 trophies shooting for perfection

 




HILL CITY, S.D. — Their glass
eyes stare from behind glass
cases, their plastic tongues lick
immortal lips. Same are frozen in
natural acts. Their fur begs to be
stroked forever. '

But touching is not allowed in
Call of the Wild, one man’s paean
to hunting. The visitor walks qui-
etly, almost reverently, as if a
cough might startle the tableaus
to life, and set off a scramble for
the real outdoors.

, For 44 years, ML. Warne has

preserved what he hunted, some
times the horns, often the head,
or the whole animal, embalmed
on a form in lifelike pose. Even
his form stands in one case, a
mannequin wrapped in an Eskimo
suit. Dwarfed by two huge polar
bears.

There are 300 animals here,
most of the wildlife of North
America. The grand slam of
sheep, a bunch of bears, four

ptarmigan, an alligator, all the -»

cats, boars from Tennessee,
mountain goats and squirrels.
Even a bat Warne pulled from a
local hotel with a leather glove
and hung in a window with a wolf.

“This started as a hobby and

 

 

Jim Carrier " ‘ .

 

Rn

 

 

turned into an obsession,” said
Warne, 68. “I don’t go out just to
kill something. It has to have tro-
phy quality. I’ve passed many
hundreds because it wasn’t tro-
phy quality. I’ve been trying for
things I don’t have.”

Last year he added eight
pieces. The year before 12. He
just got back from Canada on a
hunt for a bigger elk; when a bull
he spotted through the scope turn-
ed out to have a flawed rack,
Warne “just about bawled.”

Not everything he shoots is dis-
played. He has killed 13 bears and
12 wolves, displaying half that.
Taxidermists ruined some hides.

 

or the animal didn’t turn out to be
better than something already
mounted.

“I’m a product of the old De-
pression years, when times were
tough. I carried a bucket and
drowned gophers for nickels.”

His first gun was a Winchester
.22 single shot, which brought him
more money, 10 cents for a rab-
bit. Gradually the guns, and the
game, got bigger.

“I did a lot of hunting for deer,
antelope, elk, to put meat on the
table,” he said.

“My first deer” was shot in
1942, he said, adding the animal’s
antlers were mounted on a small
trophy board, dwarfed now by
whole displays of whole animals.

To support his family, Warne
got into the pesticide and chemi-

cal business. He put his trophies -

in a room overhead. When it
reached 100 head, he began show-
ing civic groups and Boy Scout
troops, accompanied by slides of
his hunts.

When the 1972 Rapid City ﬂood
wiped him out and new zoning
hampered him, he moved to Hill
City and opened Call of the Wild
as a tourist attraction.

“Something like this is highly

educational for young and old,”
said Warne, who greets tourists
as they enter.

“You’ll be flabbergasted,” he
tells them, then turns on the lights
and Opens the door. ‘-

A chunky man, his beard nearly
white, Warne’s stories are frozen
from so many tellings: “That elk
wasn’t from here to the wall when
I shot him. It took me more than
15 years to get drawn (in a hunt-
ing license lottery) for this desert
sheep. I shot that polar bear 30
miles from the Siberian border,
with a chill factor of 94 below ze-
ro.”

If pressed, he’ll describe the
miserable weather he’s encoun-
tered, or talk of the guides he’s
hired —- his usual way of making
his hunting days count.

“It takes a tremendous amount
of perseverance and stick-toitive-
ness to get a collection like this,”
he said.

“I’ve got to hunt sermesly now,
to add to the collection- But it has
to be quality, to impress people.
It’s all important that i get some-
thing new. In order to keep inter-
est up, you have to arid to it. We
have people who come hack ev-
erv year and see what’s new.”

 

 

 




finiCitOn 1A

"‘1 _ “a, '1. a, ‘l‘, i ‘ . . “
(”xiiikhdﬂjkj Tii‘)iiii‘u: ggt‘iii.‘ H i". i..- ,-_‘. .-‘ -~ ..\.'

 

”Nation/world

Horn trade threatening rhino

PARIS [AP]——Unless Singapore
and North Yemen stop buying its
horn, the rhinoceros, a lumbering
link to prehistory, will be extinct
in the wild within a few years, a
leading rhino expert says.

Esmond Bradle Martin said the
days of roaming ree are numbered
for the animals, which are well-
suited to defend themselves in na~
ture but helpless against poaohers’
riﬂes and poisoned spears.

Singapore imports rhino born
for traditional Asian doctors who
prescribe it to lower fevers. In
North Yemen, it is carved into
handles for daggers regarded as a
symbol of manhood. In some
other countries, there is an, un-
founded belief that powdered
rhino hom is an aphrodisiac.

“There is no hope for the Afri—
can black rhino except where pro-
tected by fences,” said Martin, an
American. based in Kenya who is
leading an international effort to
save rhinos. “Anything else is just
wasting conservation money.”

Martin, whose studies are back-
ed by the World Wildlife Fund,
testified recently before the House
Science and Technology Com-
mittee’s subcommittee on natural
resources. He told the lawmakers:
“The rhino catastrophe calls for
close international cooperation in
stopping the trade. So sharp and
dramatic a decline of the second-
largest land animal is hard to ac-
cept in this age.”

In an interview last week after

meeting in Gland, Switzerland,’

with wildlife groups and rhino spe-

cialists, he said: “No mammal in
the world has declined so dramati-
cally in recent years as the rhino.”

At greatest risk is the African
black rhino, reduced from a popu-
Iation of 65,000 in 1970 to 4,500
today. Most are in groups too
small and scattered for adequate
reproduction. Only 7,000 mem-
bers remain of the other four
rhino species, two of which live in
Africa and two in Asia.

Despite this decline in popula-
tion, trade flourishes.

Martin, 45, said Singapore has
promised to sign a treaty against
trade in endangered species, after
years of delay. Last month, the

US. banned all wildlife products-

from Singapore in an effort to
push for a Signature on the treaty.
“They don’t need this rhino

horn trade,” Rep. James Scheuer'

[D., N.Y.], chairman of the sub-
committee on natural resources,
said in a telephone interview. “It
is utterly beneath their dignity.”

He said he also wants to per-
suade China to stop selling rhino
horn in medicines. He plans to
lead a congressional delegation to
China and Singapore, in November
to push for a ban.

US. officials also are trying to
persuade North Yemen to enforce
its ban.

“North Yemen probably still
continues to take half the rhino
horn on the market,” Martin said.

The largest black rhino herd, in
Zimbabwe’s lower Zambezi region,
was estimated at 750 a year ago.
Despite efforts to halt poaching—-

rangers have killed 20 poachers
since January, 1985—100 rhino

.carcasses have been found in the

last 20 months.

If Zimbabwe, with all its com—-

mitment and resources, cannot
stop poaching, it is unlikely that
any nation can, Martin said. The
only answer, he added, is to dry
up the market.

Wholesale rhino horn is worth
about $400 a pound in Africa, but
it sellsfor $7,500 on the market in
Singapore.

All the poachers killed in Zim-
babwe were Zambians, and some
wildlife authorities say theybelieve
some Zambianofficials are impli-
cated. They say poachers smuggle
the horn back to Zambia and
across Lake Tanganyika to Burun~
di. It is shipped legally from
Burundi to the United Aral
Emirates, then to Singapore ano
North Yemen.

Martin and others recently per»
suaded H’ong Kong, Taiwan,
Macau and South Korea to ban
trade in rhino horn. He has been
trying to get Singapore’s tradition-
al physicrans to use substitutes.
Pharmacists shave the horn, which
is essentially matted hair, into a
fine powder. Martin has persuaded
many to use saiga antelope and
water buffalo horn instead.

“Factories I visited in Peking
and Shanghai said they had
stopped,” Martin said. “Several
others said they would but wanted
to do it slowly. If they abruptly
took rhino horn off the label, they
fear they would lose sales.”

GRIT — 11/2-8/86

Birds Triumph
In Airport War

By ROLLIN MOSELEY . _
Twice a day, birds are Winning
the battle of the airport in Tupelo, i
Miss. Officials shut down opera—
tions for a half-hour in the morn-
ing and half-hour in the evening
as blackbirds fly to and from

their roosts. -

An estimated 2 million birds
are involved, said George Singer,
manager of the CD. Lemmons
Airport. .

The airport has been usmg
propane-powered guns and norse
bombs to scare off the birds, but
there are just too many of them,
officials said.

Extermination is out for now.
Frank Boyd, a supervisor with
the United States Fish and Wild-
life Service, said he would have to
study the area to determine if the
birds could be killed without
harming the environment.

Commercial operations have
not been affected since no flights
are scheduled at the times the
birds normally clog the airport.

 

 




NORTHSIDE NEIGHBOR - Atlanta - 10/29/86

Animals to benefit from flea market

for animals at the shelter has been mailed to the same address.
established. Food contributions C811 Mrs. Reed at 394-1294 for
Mid be marked as such and more information.

Ginny Reed of Sandy Springs will
serve as chairman for an upcoming
flea market to benefit Life for God’s
Stray Animals, a no—kill animal
shelter in Lithonia. .

The flea market is set for 9 am.
until 4 pm. Nov. 1 at Long John
Silver’s at 5615 Memorial Drive. The
event will feature a variety of items
such as gently-worn clothing,
fewelry, furniture. books, records,

amps and more.

Persons interested in making
general contributions to the animal
shelter owned by Jerry and Ann
Fields should mail their donations
to: LFGSA, PO. Box 321, Lithonia.
Ga. 30058. An emergency food fund

Man’s Best Friend Saves Three Lives 1n Bramerd, an.
In Brainerd, Minn, a dog Bob Monkman were asleep in cord.

upheld the reputation of being their motor home on the last day The dog, who his master, Oeh—

“man’s best friend” when he of their Leech Lake ﬁshing trip ler, calls “Mainerd from Brain-

saved three men from a burning when the carpet. in the motor erd” began barking. His noise

motor home. 31 . home caught fine maZﬁmf an woke his master to the'srnell. of
Sam Oehler, Pat Doucette and "electrical short in f e ’ ‘ '

. a-

nsion smoke. '

 

use _ TﬂD/‘ll”- meow

 

 

 

=9 ' ' Q) $33 ' ' m:
I ”3:53; 8“" 2:1 3
Moose match .28...
. . ........ a)“ 0'; =Ea 5 063
m egg-5m “$855.0 =5
333g: Bas§§ E”
iv “ ' cm
z§§%§ §e€§< e
gss§° 585g?
. sing aggwg
ﬁrm Same»
ENgiﬁ-ngﬁé
'8,8E°3§§o~§5$
. Eﬁgﬁsgmi§§§§
l U Qua-n- vac-ace 'U
, asses sgsgs as
,ﬁ .sgﬁﬁ segues" “5
l 5% 5‘5: ﬁhh%§. .80
. O gsése Esesgwé
He s§DEs aﬁswsﬁﬁg
owﬂut 8035:1333
o mrmﬂg E§Eﬁ§~mp
3 - §§§sﬁ s~33§sRE
H
H Ci mew-8,, ”goggé’gg
LI m “ho a
« CL-“ssva 5.~’°2~a
N 2200.5 :15 Edooge-‘Zm
N ,d) 25 3°33 ﬁesos
. E ”é 89 a 5m
+4 0'53 , <§c§ £32.10;
, 5 . ‘H 33.22.» 35.5%5 :5
' Q '000‘ 'Umc‘.” an
. ”gag: On to
a a. :sagr‘gssess s
8 5g§s§sg§¢§"“ s
....... ==A3= “£853 h E
o: 00: 59a.
a 0%".” Nacg’oﬁg 3
9 “35%“ U: '8‘.- O
m , ‘ﬁghggggg'SEO '5'
.‘ ' " . '. O 0
By Vyto Starinskas, AP Q . ‘ pgvggg‘a: 0% g 35.3
.cow EYES: The 700-pound moose that’s fallen for ‘Jessica.’ 2. E r'bg'g‘é‘ Q 22 :52 "-5
: Hereford owned by Shrewsbury, Vt, farmer Larry Carrara, dream i: g ha. 3 .5 g g .— 3 ‘5 § 5;
1,000 tourists Wednesday from as far as New Jersey. The _ 0 _.§.: ° 5 g ""
moose, dubbed ‘Bullwinkle’ by Carrara’s grandson, began ro- 2 5 £5 9.}: 2‘
manclng the cow Saturday, disrupting Carrara's life. “it was a 5‘5; >30 Egg 3
hectic day, with all these people taking pictures,’ he said. <"§-2§§§§ gag Egg“
. . o ’—

 

 

 

 

 




DALLAS T lMBS HERALD - October 26, 1986

 

 

 

a «3::-

 

 

  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  

‘Vest and most fascmating sight acoessrble to. wildlife—
ijIOVing travelers in Africa '=
iii? This lg a slightly larger cousin of the lowland go»
5', rillas that can be. Seen at zoos around the. world But
:_{there are; no mountain gorillas in captivity, and a
{’mere 350 or so sumve in their native habitat on the
._ forested slopes of a half‘dozen extinct volcanoes on
évgthe borders of Rwanda, Zaire and Uganda ' -
These shy creatures, whose fearsome appearance
2;:belies their placid demeanor... were the objects of.
Dian Fossey s pioneering research and obsessive afv ..
{faction for two decades before her murder last Des
embers. .1 .
-i-,.-'-; For the past few years, the Rwanandan govern-
ment has allowed small numbers of foreign tourists
‘ to visit the mountain gorillas in this obscure and -
' "g-landlocked little nation in East Central Africa. Man '
. la and I trekked to see tum of the four groups that,
a V ,_ have been habituated by the Mountain Gorilla Pro,»
" Jonas, had issued when we entered thei‘pa'rk rep to..l~,.‘ject to the daily arrival of camera—toting humans. We
. 'a (trench look subnusswe, arrest our ’ 'esaﬂ'o: the 'ji-iaiyzwere in Rwanda on a tour organized by Chicago—.1
gorilla ' ’ ~ ’ based Classm Tours International, a new. company I
In my most meekly submisswe postural .:_azard~5 perated by noted Wlldllfe photographer Michael
led _.a- glance toward Marnie crouched Just 0x. AAAAA
~37'fright She was Sonora in the gorilla s-s-path _g ' ”Fossey despised the tourist program, believing
‘ i'brushed nonchalanﬂy against her. as he sthV-jg T'tos; .-.;,that it; intruded on the gorilla’ :1 peace and privacy.
{ward another cluster of foliage Though not hard

  
   
  

 

 

' tam gorilla

, -'_‘."‘ hug : It Was -, . .
Veitement and . awe leavened Vwit

. . The 400pound'xs11verhack boasting a
.:_'??7foot arm span and the strengtV jVjV otper»

   
   
   
    

      

      

    
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
    
   
 

  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  

   

  
  
  

 

Though we. did feel a bit like intruders, we also,
Viioame to appremate that tourism may represent the ,
217;, ,j best hope for the survwal of this gravely endan-
i j ., ._f" gered species -

.fbelly,” Mai‘c18""said later. j “I was mildly nervous Poachers were Fossey s bitterest enemies, but the ,
fwhen he headed straight for me, but mostly I was a} greatest threat to the gorillas continues to be the
thrilled to come so close to such a rare and beautiful 'j sheer pressure of human population on their
’ ’ ' - - shrinking mountain domain. Rwanda is one of Afri»

_ Please see GORILLAS n 2

  

    

 




ca’s poorest and most densely pop-
ulated countries: 6.3 million peo-
ple, almost all of them subsistence
farmers with a per capita annual
income of $270, packed into an ar-
ea the size of Maryland.

Small farms run right up to the
boundary of Volcanoes National
Park, and ordinary Rwandans cov-
et the 40-square-mile gorilla re-
. serve for their agricultural needs.
The government's main argument
for resisting this land hunger is the
fact that the gorillas bring in 6,000
visitors a year, making tourism the
nation’s third-largest source of for—
eign exchange. .

Our base for the gorilla treks
was the comfortable Meridien Ho-
tel on Lake Kivu in the provincial
town of Gisenyi, a two-hour drive
from the Volcanoes National Park
visitor center.

We set off for the‘ﬁrst trek at 6
a.m. on the last Saturday in May,
along with two other Classic Tours
International clients. Callixte Kara-
muka, our diver-guide for the five
days'in Rwanda, spoke enough
English to answer most of our
questions; he was unfailingly sav~
vy and helpful.

At jthe visitor center, which was
graced by the most foul-smelling
outdoor toilet this side of Tibet,
our Group 11 gorilla permits were
checked and we met the remain-
ing two members of our party.
Regulations limit a trek to six per-
sonsrpermits cost about $60 on top
of the $12 park admission fee.

Forty-five minutes more on a
rutted road through bean and po—
tato ﬁelds, past swarms of children
in uniform hiking to school, got us
to the starting point. Completing
the entourage were Jonas the rang—
er—gu'ide, another park ranger with
a rifle (in case of poachers, we
were told) and two young porters.

On this sunny day we were too
warmly dressed, even at a mile
and a half above me level. I sweat-
ed fiercely in a cableknit sweater,
which rise-:ertheless kept. on to
shield r i... “art the profusion
of stinging settles in the thick un—
dergrowth. We wore gloves for .the
same reason. It took just over two
hours of strenuous climbing to
reach the "gorillas. Much of the
time, we stumbled along narrow
paths infested with snatches of
foot-Sharing undergrowth, boot-
sucldng mud and slippery rocks.
But there also were occasional oa—
ses of bamboo groves where the
breeze was cooler and the footing
surer. -

Bamboo shoots are like caviar to
mountain gorillas, and Jonas
pointed out the ﬁrst gorilla drop-
‘ pings from the previous day in one
of the groves. Then he shushed us

into_silence, and we were suddenly
among the gorillas of Group 11,
feeding in a moderately dense
patch of forest. First came a rus-
tling noise and the momentary
glimpse of a small form in a tree.
Then we rounded a bush to ﬁnd
ourselves within a dozen feet of an
adult male. .

Jonas made a low throat-clear-
ing sound of contentment to as-

.sure the gorillas our presence was

peaceful. I shivered with excite—
ment at being so close to such a
remarkable. animal. The gorilla
was clearly less excited, acknowl-
edging our appearance only with a

swivel of the eyes as he continued
to strip leaves off his lunchtime

- bush.

As we noticed that this animal
was missing his right hand (caught
several years ago in a poacher’s
snare), a rustling behind us herald-

. ed the arrival of the silverback.

50 called because the hair on
their backs turns a silvery gray,
these mature males rule groups of
eight to a dozen gorillas. I like to
think that this silverback decided
to walk through the tourists to
show us who was boss and to give
us an extra thrill for our money.
More likely, we just happened to
be in the path of his next vegetari-
an course.

Jonas led us to a young female
munching on bamboo shoots and
another youngster savoring some
delicious-looking white and pink
roots. They ignored the repeated
clicks of our cameras. Even though
we had been told not to look the
gorillas in the eye, we found our-
selves staring in wonder, and they
didn’t seem to mind.

Jonas, who spoke no English,
told us in French through a group
member’s interpretation that
Group 11 had no females until last

fall but now has three. That ex-_

plained the absence of infants, be—
cause a gorilla’s gestation period is
about the same as a human’s. It
appeared that at least one of the
fairies r"m. be pregnant.

ran-so. t ”rats af v sign
ed the first gorilla, it was time to
end the visit. In our elation we
weren’t mentally prepared for the
grueling hike back to the van. We
reached it too exhausted to eat
much of the picnic lunch Callixte
had packed. 1 '

On Sunday we rested. A new
friars, Fritz, who works for Air
France in" San Francisco, bought a
permit to visit Group 13. He got

back to the hotel by noon, both .

pleased and disappointed. Hisgo-

rillas had been just inside the park '

boundary, a level walk of less than
30 minutes, but he and the other
tourists had been unable to get
very close to them.

We had permits on Monday to
see Group 9, the third of the goril-
la bands accessible by day trips. (A
fourth group‘can be visited on an
overnight camping trip, while oth—
ers are being studied by scientists
and remain off-limits to tourists.)
But we didn’t knOw whether we’d
be permitted to make the trek un-
til Callixte brought us the good
news. -

Group 9 sometimes meanders
across the unmarked border into
Zaire, and visits are suspended
then because of possible danger
from poachers. But the group had
returned to Rwanda the previous
day, Callixte told us. What’s more,
these gorillas were reported to be

an hour or less from the park en—
trance.

A steady rain greeted us at the
visitor center, and we had to put
on ponchos to help push the van
when it got stuck. Leading us this
time was the park’s chief guide,
Francois, who spoke a little En—
glish and obviously took great
pride in his work and the gorillas.
In the rain the mud was slurping-
thick, but after 45 minutes Fran-
cois found the gorillas feeding in a
thick stand of forest.

In some ways, Group 9 was even
more captivating than Group 11,
thanks to the presence of a baby
and several youngsters. This time
the silverback kept his distance,
but he did stand up and display
his magniﬁcent mane before strid-
ing into the bushes.

As if on cue, the sun came out,
delighting both tourists and goril-
las. We came upon one adolescent
stretched out on his back with
hands behind head, as though

' basking on the beach. A smaller

youngster spent several minutes
cavorting and swinging from a tree
limb in front of us; I’m convinced
the kid was showing off.
Eventually, the rain resumed
and Francois signaled that our stay
was over. This came as we were
cheery-ting and photographing a
imither gorilla and baby huddled
in a clump of undergrowth with
one of her older children. This fi-
nal vignette made us hope all the
harder that the mountain gorillas
can. defy long odds and maintain
their peaceful place on the planet.

 




MEMPHIS COMD'IERCIAL APPEAL - October 26, 1986

 

, 'I-I‘. .‘

The 4-f

 

Remote valley offers Chance to save

rare breed of rhriee

 

By Gayle Young I

United Press; *rw'ie‘m" _

 

NEW YORK — A herd of shy,
woolly rhinoceros has been dis-'
covered in a remote Malaysian
“Shangri-La” valley, a tropical
haven that may save the ex-
tremely rare species- from e
tinction, it was announced yes-
terday.

The herd of at least five ani-
mals appears to be healthy and
breeding, said Julian Caldecott,
a 30-year-old British biologist
who hiked for four days into the
remote valley in August after
hearing a rumor of the rhinos’
existence from native Malay-
sians.

“I was very excited because
this is a chance to save a species
that seemed doomed,” Caldecott
said. “It is also a reason and ex-
cuse to save this valley. . . . It
really is like a lost valley of
Shangri-La.”

The 250-square-mile valley is

in an undisclosed region of the

island Borneo. It is surrounded
by high mountains and filled
with lush vegetation, monkeys
and birds, he said.

It is believed only 150 Suma-
tran two-horned —- or woolly —
rhinoceros exist in Southeast
Asia, where they roamed in the
thousands before the turn of the
cehturv,

The small, M'oot-high rhinos

were hunted ruthlessly before;

World War II for their horns,

which were used in China to
make a medicine believed to re-'

duce fever and cure stomach
cramps. Caldecott said remain-
ing woolly rhinos continue to be
killed and their horns sold on
the black market.

“They exist in ones and twos
here and there, but they are one
of the most endangered species
still in existence,” he said. “This
is a real herd that is breeding. It
gives us hope this species may be
savedf’

The woolly rhino is one of
only five rhinoceros species,
said Caldecott. Two species are

 

from extinction

in Africa, one in North India ans“?
the fourth is native to J ave.

The woeiiy is the smallest oi
the five and closely resembles
the woolly rhinoceros hunted b}
prehistoric man in ice age Eu-
rope 30,000 years ago. ,

Caldecott said the animals are
furry at birth but lose much of
their “wool” by adulthood.

 

 

 




ATLANTA J OURNAL / CONSTITUTION

Children Chlp

Decatur students
contribute $701 to
Zoo Atlanta fund

By Donna Williams Lewis
Staff Writer

Nine-year-old Ashley McCoy said he
didn’t mind giving a wh0pping $20 of his
savings to help The Atlanta Journal-Consti-
tution buy a new elephant for Zoo Atlanta.

Children are involved in the newspa-
pers’ campaign because “they care more
than adults. Adults just don’t think that an
elephant is that great,” he said. “But an e1-
ephant is not an animal that stinks a lot.
It’s a nice animal, and there’s not a lot of
them around.”

Ashley is a student at. Decatur’s
McClendon Elementary School that Friday
turned over a check for $701 to Zoo Atlan-
ta. The check brought the total amount of
contributions received after two weeks to
$12,588.

The newspapers’ goal is to raise
$20,000 for a baby African elephant to re-
place Coca II, who died Sept. 26. Among
the groups holding individual drives are ho-
tels, homeowners’ associations, preschools
and businesses. The same kind of communi-
ty fund-raising effort in 1950 raised the
money that brought Coca II to the zoo.

The McClendon school campaign began
two weeks ago with a competition among
the seven grade levels. A row of cardboard
thermometers at the back of the cafeteria
was used to keep track of each grade’s
contribution. Three grades broke the mer-
cury bubble by exceeding the schoolwide
goal of $120 per grade. The second-graders
came in first with $166.

Students raised their donations all kinds
of ways, according to campaign coordina-
tor and first-grade teacher Karen Frand-
sen.

Holding out two handfuls of change,
Tarlisha Ascar, 6, told Ms. Frandsen, “This
is for the baby elephant, and this is my ice
cream money. You can have both.”

Other students daily gave the dime
change from their 90- cent lunches. Ashley
said he earned his money by raking leaves,
washing dishes and mowing the lawn.

Finding their group lagging, kindergar-
ten teachers worked in earnest to help
their students understand what was going
on. Nevertheless, one student told her
teacher she simply could not contribute to
the fund. “If I brought a baby elephant
home, my mama would kill me,” she said.

First—grader Jennifer Willcutt, whose

November 2, 1986

 

Surrounded by some of the pupils at
Decatur’s McClendon Elementary
School who pitched in dimes and
nickels to give to the fund to buy a

persistence with her relatives netted $10,
has already decided on a name for the new
elephant.

“If it’s a girl, it should be ‘Cindy,’ ” the
curly-haired youngster said. “If it’s a boy,
it should be ‘You Know Who’ because I
don’t like boys.”

Jennifer doesn’t have to worry. 200 At-
lanta spokeswoman Grace Trimble said the
zoo has its eye on a 3- -year-old female ele-
phant that was caught wild in Africa and is
now being trained in Florida.

“She’s reported to be quite a girl,” Ms.
Trimble said, adding that the unnamed

 

in for elephant

 

 

 

NElL MCGAHEE/Staff

new elephant for Zoo Atlanta, teacher
Karen Frandsen (left) presents a
check for $701 to Grace Trimble, zoo
public relations director.

1,200-p0und baby may make it to her new
home in Atlanta before Thanksgiving.

The new elephant will join the 200’s
only other elephant, Starlet O'Hara, who
will celebrate her fourth birthday on Elec-
tion Day.

The campaign ends next weekend. Tax-
deductible contributions may be made to:
Zoo Atlanta Baby Elephant Fund, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution, P.O. Box 1685, Atlan-
ta, Ga. 30301. Each contributor will receive
either a children's collectible sticker or a
bumper sticker.

 

 

 




Beach

By Steve Weingarten

Journal-Constitution Correspondent

MAZATLAN, Mexico — Tourism
has showered wealth upon this Pa—
cific resort, but Daniel Rios fears
an impending environmental disas-
ter on the azure horizon if hotels
continue to sprout along the famous
coastline. ‘

“The problem in Mexico is we
don’t protect our resources until
they are already endangered,” the
marine biologist said.

Rios is concerned about the esti-
mated 150,000 sea turtles that in-
habit Mexican waters and wade
ashore to lay their eggs on the
country’s beaches. The reptiles have
survived in the world’s oceans for
150 million years, but now face the
threat of extinction at the hands of
deve10pers, poachers and shrimpers.

From Greece to Florida to Mex-
ico, sea turtles wade ashore to lay
eggs on once-virgin beaches now
lined with condominiums or sun-
worshiping tourists. Even if the fe—
males can find a spot to spawn,
their offspring often are drawn to
bright city lights and death in the
tropical sun instead of safety in the
glittering surf.

On undeveloped sands the tur—
tles often meet an even worse fate.
Poachers strip their top shells,
called carapaces, to convert into
tortoise-shell goods, and skin their
leathery undersides, known as plas-
trons, to make boots and purses.
The nest robbers’ greatest prize,
however, is the eggs, which are be-
lieved by some to have aphrodisiac
qualities.

“Some men eat 25 or 30 eggs
thinking it will give them sexual po-
tency. That’s ridiculous. I don’t care
if you eat the whole turtle, if you
don’t have it, you don’t have it,”
scoffed Rios.

 

 

Elie Al'imila ileurual AM.) (LUNS’I‘l’l‘li'l‘lUN

deveIOpment, poachng threaten M

The poachers’ biggest advantage
is knowing the precise spot where
the pregnant females will nest. In
one of nature’s most incredible feats
of navigation, sea turtles cross thou-
sands of miles of open ocean to lay
their eggs on precisely the same
beaches where they themselves
were hatched years before.

Researchers at Texas A&M Uni-
versity found that hatchlings fix the
location by the smell of the sand
and water. The olfactory imprinting
process is thought to begin while
the reptiles are still in the eggs.

Although unable to ward off at-
tack by pulling their heads and flip-
pers into their shells like land tur-
tles, adult sea turtles are fast

swimmers and are almost indestruc-
tible in the open ocean. Males spend
their entire lives in the water, and
females wade ashore for only a few
hours a year, to lay their eggs. Af-
ter incubating in the sand for nearly
two months, inch-long hatchlings
emerge and fight their way toward
the surf. Natural predators, such as
birds, iguanas and crabs, devour 98
percent of them.

The survivors are able to last a
few days until they are adept at
swimming and finding food. Their
regular diet includes shrimp, plank-
ton, shellfish, and jellyfish such as
the deadly Portuguese man-of—war.

Scientists can’t explain where the
reptiles spend the first year of their
lives. Green turtles, for example,
aren’t seen again until they are one
year old and as big as a dinner
plate.

The sea turtles reach fertility.
after about seven years. Six of sev-
en species nest alone, but members
of the smallest and most endan-
gered species, the Kemp’s Ridley,
wade ashore en masse on the only
beach on Earth where they lay
eggs. In 1947, an estimated 42,000

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 19863 ”H

“Ridleys” gathered along a remete
12-mile stretch of Mexican mast-
line. Last year, fewer than 500 at

the now rare reptiles nested at Ran-
cho Nuevo, in Tamaulipas state.
Mexican officials once showed
little concern for the sea turtles, but
trafficking in the pingpong-ball-sized
eggs became a federal crime in
1963. Today, Mexican and US. biol-
ogists run a highly praised conser-
vation program at Rancho Nuevo,
which was declared a protected re-
serve in 1977. After the mother tur-
tle waddles back into the surf, the
eggs are dug up and transferred to
fenced corrals, to be guarded
against human and animal preda-
tors. '
Some 2,000 Kemp’s Ridley t-zggs

a year also are shipped to nests en
Padre Island, Texas, where conser-
vationists hope adults later wiii re-
turn to spawn future generatinns.

Although egg thieves have Eaten
driven out of Tamaulipas, poachers
still ravage other Pacific nests al
most freely. Armed sailors on na-
trol along Sinaloa beaches discour—
age some outlaws, but Rios said
only education offers a long-term
solution.

“We try to reach the kids,” he
said. “We know we will never con-
vince their fathers to stOp after
hunting turtles for 20 or more
yearsf’

The Mexican Fishing Ministry
authorizes residents of Oaxaca state
to catch 20,000 turtles annually for
the national market. The hawksbill
turtle’s carapace is prized for tor-
toise-shell eyeglass frames, combs
and hairbrush handles, while the
green turtle’s meat is used for soup
and stew.

Although turtle poaching isn’t a
major problem in the United States,
the reptiles are endangered by
shrimpers operating along the Gulf
and Atlantic coasts. The air-breath-
ing animals can remain submerged
for hours, but turtles that become
tangled in boat nets often drown.

 

new sea turtles
with extinction




 

 

 

 

THE DENVER POST - October 21, 1986

 

 

The Devner Post /Ly Alwe

Animal control officer Kay Nickson has built a better skunk trap.

 

  
   
 

[Went

By Ted Delaney
Denver Post Staft Writer

Build a better skunk trap,and the world will
beat a path to your door.

Kay Nickson,animal control officer for the

' Rangely Police Department,has devised a

new way of stemming the siege of skunks that
has hit the Western Slope this year. Since she
began using her new skunk irap,she has
caught nearly 400 of the rascals since
mid-August,compared with her previous
year’s high of about 30.

Her secretzplastics.

Nickson has redone the old wooden box trap
in Plexiglas,with small holes through which
she administers a lethaLpainless injection of
sodium pentobarbital - using a hypodermic
needle at the end of a 6-foot pole.

“With the old wooden trap,l had to cart it
out of town,open the door and then wait for
the skunk to come out,” she said. “Then I’d
have to shoot it.”

Nickson said the see~througgh trap also
allows her to know right away when cats and
small dogs blunder into her lure.

She said a drastic solution was needed for a
drastic situation. Skunks seem to be
everywhere in Rangely and other Western
Slope communities,because of a mild winter
and a decline in the population of the skunk’s
natural enemies -— coyotes,bobcats and fox,
experts say. “It’s become the big topic in
town,” Nickson said. “Every day,people ask
me ‘How’s the skunk business going?’

puts a check

 
 

trap
SmI es

“It had gotten to the point you can’t get out
of your car and into your house without
running into a skunk,” she said. So far, no
Rangely residents have reported being
sprayed or bitten, but many of the town’s dogs
have picked up a mean stink chasing skunks.
She said a chemical called Neutroleum Alpha
is best for cleaning a skunk’s musk off
dogs,clothes or one’s self. -

“I’m not proud . . . that I’ve had to put
down nearly 400 skunks,” she said. “They’re
still God’s little creatures,and have their own
place and purpose. Animal Control prefers to
control by means other than death. But
skunks are known rabies carriers.”

Nickson said she hasn’t been sprayed yet.
“If you’re real quiet, and approach them real
slow,you don’t. get sprayed,” she said. Skunks
have an effective range of 8 to 12 feet,raising
questions of why she uses only a 6-foot pole.
“Better control,” she said. Nickson said she
will be offering her technology to other
animal-control officers,who have shown great
interest in the new traps. She said she has
other tips for would-be skunk trappers.

Bait,for instance. Nickson said the most
effective bait for skunks is cantaloupe and
whole,raw eggs. “They take the shells off
themselves,” she said. “And eggs and
cantaloupe won’t attract other animals.”

Nickson said it has been a long,pungent
summer. ,

“It will be a pleasure to get back to the old
dog, cat and horse business,” she said.

  
 

 

LIT. . ‘k‘..~ 1‘. ‘2' gl'y‘i 2!“.




name of Mice Cube. 3 name
thought up by a fast—talking pub—
lic relations man named Thomas
A. Eifier. who met up with Ber-
nard and ,hopes to buy into the
company. Kingsbury is selling his
half of the idea. says Bernard.

Eiﬂer has also named a larger
version of the trap. called a Condo-
micium, which can trap up to 20
mice. Bernard calls t the family
unit. He plans to price the email

Left overnight. the mouse wilt
suffocate and die, says Bernard.
On the other hand, the mouse can
be released into freedom or sold to
reptile clubs that pay $1 per live
mouse. he says.

The trap can be reused and
comes in clear plastic or tinted. for
those who would rather not view
the mouse. It will sell under the

trap at $2 retail and the family
unit at about $5 to $6 retail. A
generous profit margin is built in.
At high-volume production. the
small trap would cost 19 cents to
produce. the family unit 62 cents.
Bernard. though, is not dreaming
of Porsche cars or Aruba. “if
something happened that I made
out, l'd be out helping others who
don’t have it." he says.

Letters to governors in the 50
states have drawn requests for
testing units and Bernard has felt
some interest as well in a similar
trap for rats. He is still perfecting
a small rat unit and one that
could catch more than a dozen
rats at a time. Rats are smarter
than mice though. he says. so his
rat units might have rats moving
through a succession of one-way
doors.

Bernard, who calls himself
shy. is rather pleased with the
success of his in “So many
things you go and buy that don't
work and here‘s something tha
does work.” he says. -

Already the trap has cleared 3.2;}
a problem at the Ptaistow Fit:
and Trust, where. mice as ea
ing the (randy tankers put out for
children. and in the teat shed of a
friend of Eifler's.

Bernard sees no reason it
couldn't work for squirrels. chip-

...rl» * nieces. as welt.

 

MIAIVII/ SOUTH FLORIDA MAGAZINE - NOV. 1986

BIG ORANGE

DOG STAR

His name is Webster Buster
Brown. He is not a cutesy
black TV star, nor does he live
in twotoned shoes. He is a
Yorkshire Terrier, a resident of
South Florida and a star
among dogs. Just two years
old, little Webster has won
numerous talent contests, been
accepted to appear on David
Letterman's Stupid Pet
Tricks segment and now
(trumpets, please) won the
national talent search by the
folks from At The Movies for
the symbolic pooch of the
“dog of the week" segment.
As one of ten 1986 “Reel
Dog” awardees, Webster not
only gets a statuette of a
director’s chair, he gets to ap-
pear on one of the nationally
aired segments.

All this brou—ha-ha is rich
reward for Webster’s owner,
Pompano Beach postal worker
Miriam Brown, who began
training Webster almost by
accident—when the canny
canine jumped onto a neigh-
bor’s toy electric car and tried
to ride it. Since then, Webster
has learned a bunch of
endearing tricks, stuff" Liz-v:- put-
ting his paws ore? ,- ' ’
when asked what he thinks of
the Miami Dolphins.

What Brown most likes to
do with Webster, however, is
dress him up. That’s what first
caught the eye of the pro-
ducers of At The llamas:
Webster dressed in a satin
Mighty Deg outfit. Among the
little dogs other costumes :3 a
Michael Jackson getup (replete
with sequined glove), a base—
ball outfit, a satin tux with
bow tie, even a mailman oath:
to match Brown’s. As for the
future, says Brown, “I’m going
to get him on Miami Vice.
He‘s got all the fashionable
clothes.”

 

Webster,
the wonder dog
poses for a
publicity shot.

THE PHOENIX GAZETTE - Oct. 22

Killing of school
mascots, 5 pigs

puzzles police

OVIEDO, Fla. (AP) -— A preg-
nant geat and five pigs being raise-4i
by high school agriculture students
have been stabbed to death, par-—
zling police, angering parents and
upsetting teenagers.

“After the pigs were killed, I saw
15. and lG-year-olds crying in my
living room," said giz-srcsnt Madeline
Searfo. . ,.

in the past month. the pigs are:
the geai Oyieda Hit}- Qt
mascot, have been killed, and a
.piglet has been badly mutilated.
'The animals, which belonged to
students, participating in the Ft: " 1
liiarazcss of America program, were:

in pens surrounded by 6-foot-tall
jfences.__. ‘ '

“We still feel angry about this.”
said Scarfo’s 15-year-old son, Jo-
seph, who two weeks ago found the
mutilated body of his piglet, Copen-
‘hagen. “We’ve got to get the guy
that’s doing it. We’ve got to do
more.”

 




 

 

THE BOSTON GLOBE - October 27, 1986

 

 

-‘- V ~’rf- -

staff photos/Jim Wilson

 

 

Test mice in Plaistow shop Console 3 trapped cousin.

New mouselm

By Jane Meredith Adams
Globe Staff

PLAISTOW. NH. - Up to this point. Kenneth R.
Bernard has been living a relatively quiet life as
the president of a small machine tool company
here called AZ Tool Corp. Now he's deep into the
world of rodents. thanks to a friend who tossed out
the expression: If you build a better mousetrap.
people will beat a path to your door.

Bernard. age 59. took that statement to heart.
He was ”open to the idea" ofa new kind of mouse—
trap. he says. because he had been feeling discour—
aged about the tool business. His best contacts in
the industry have retired and foreign competition
and poorer-quality companies have underbid him,
he says. At companies where he used to be “like
one of the family." he says. he is shut out.

So he has diversified. Next to the heavy eqmp-
ment in his shop now are pens filled with scamper—
ing baby mice and rats. The mice he caught using
his own device. of course. The rats he bought.

Bernard. who wears a navy blue lab coat and a
scientiﬁc air, is a bit squeamish when it comes
right down to the rodents, so he has hired a young
man to (handle them. The young man places the
trap in the center of the pen. Bernard has been
feeding them well lately, what with all the testing
of the traps and wanting to keep them calm. But
within five minutes. two of them have walked
right into the trap.

’ The idea of the trap is simple, and Bernard and

 

 

invented

 

p e device.

the friend who threw the cliche at him. William
Kingsbury, have a patent pending. The trap is a
rectangular—shaped plastic box with a one-way
door on one end. The door has a few tiny holes in it
to emit the odor of the bait, a cracker and peanut
butter. The mouse. sniffing around, enters the box
to get the bait. The door shuts behind it and, voila,

it is trapped.
TRAP, Page 10

 

 

 

 




ATLANTA JOURNAL/CONSTITUTION - November 1, 1986

Recently the Atlanta Journal and
Constitution annOunced a campaign to
raise $20,000 to buy Zoo Atlanta a new

' baby elephant. And the respOnse has
been terrific. Contributions have
amounted to nearly $12, 000 and they
continUe to come in, To every
contributor, we say thanks from the
Journal-Constitution and Zoo Atlanta.

We’re now Over halfway to our goal,
and we need your help to make it all
the ”way. So we’re encouraging every
Atlantan who loves our city and zoo to
contribute tOday.

All. commawons ' ~
LIS'I'Eb m we museum. . - .
cousnw'nou * WV

Send in your tax- deductible contribution
today, no matter how large or small

 




and we ll include your name in a special
ad welcomlng our new baby elephant to
Atlanta.

In addition, We ll give every contributor
the choice of a spec1al I gained 2 ,000
lbs. for the Zoo” children s gcollectible
. sticker or bumper sticker—ind to show
everyone how much you cazzia-

A11l;~>;11’1ta needs a new bab1 ekphani, anl
“6 need you. Please cornpiete the
coupon below and send in your '
contributions today. '

HELP BUYAH ELEPHANT FUN ATLANTA.
PLENSE SEND YOUR CONTRIBUTION ALONG WITH THIS OOIII'ON.

 

l\\,'|‘\\\ll Illt\| \III)I)|.I'l\II'l\l

 

\l)l)Iil\\ \l .t)

 

‘ (H1

 

\11. \ \ 11 1 1 ‘

All contributors “ill treeixe an “I gala“ 2 .008 l§1:. 111-1 9&1: 291%”

kids sticker or a bumpm shaker llcase ma1l< the 1111311311411; 1141.1
( .1111tr1bﬁt1n11s an t1\ deductible
\lz1l11‘1‘l11-1'lw11.1111l1lrt11
7.1m \tltmta Iflvphant Fund

Mail contributions to:
21111 Atlanta Elephant Fund _ .. _
.. :" Atlanta Journal» CONS? IIUEIOT} my my; ‘11.“?
1 I) O Box 1685
Atlanta, GA 30301 .1

EUR 21111111111 Enumal
THE ATLANTA CONSTITUTION ZOO

ATLANTA

 




USA TODAY — October 28

irefighfers
re

ookeepers m
ackson,
Mississippi

When you think of the good
works firefighters perform every
day, helping establish a zoo is
not the first thing that comes to
mind. ‘Yet, to the folks in Jackson
Mississippi the correlation is
quite obvious.

Jackson's firefighters started
the city zoo back in 1919 by
adopting stray and stranded
animals found in the wild. By
1921, the small firehouse could

no longer accommodate the grow-

ing animal population, so the

' animals were moved to a parcel
of land donated as a park for city
residents. Hence, the beginnings
of the lackson City Zoo.

The fire department, which has
grown to 23 fire stations through—
out the city, has maintained a
strong relationship with the zoo.
This summer, firefighters have
begun an aluminum can recycling
program to raise funds for
updating and restoring the
children's zoo.

"Because of state and federal
budget cuts, zoo officials thought

9

1986

 

 

f—

 

 

 

rgsm ,
«annual s

 

 

 

I

the"),r might have to close the
children's zoo," said Fire Chief
WB. Toney. "We really did not
want to see that happen."

Lynn Swigert, director of the
Jackson City Zoo, said the recy-
cling program has been highly
successful. "Because of the great
community interest, we have
been able to keep the children's
zoo open."

in only two and a half months
firefighters have collected 3,460
pounds of aluminum cans for a
total of $1,244. The money will go
to buy a new water fountain for
the children's zoo and fora
bridge restoration. Swigert hopes
that future funds will go toward
the expansion of a natural history
exhibit where children can get
hands-on experience with
animals native to Mississippi.

 

 

 

Cuddhng

Charles the whi
has the normal om:

te h

i"!

ke two playful ki
ge colori

.ttens,
ger and Whiskers

Prince ‘
, who
ng of a Bengal

tiger

gether while frolicking
closure at the San Fra

ncisco Zoo.

, affectionately rub their heads to-
in their outdoor en-

N

A

xrtosmu.
ENQUIRER

Nov. 4, 1986

 




DENVER POST - October 17, 1986

Denver Zoo resurrects

By Robert Kowalski
Denver Post Staff Writer

The Denver Zoo has revived
plans for a $30 million city aquari-
um, just weeks after Mayor Feder-
ico Pena said Denver would not fio
nance the project.
The Zoological - Foundation’s
Board of Trustees has agreed to
conduct an exhaustive study to de-
termine whether private fund—rais-
ing couldpay for construction of
the aquarium in one. of two down-
town s1tes: where Currigan Hall
stands or in the Central Platte Val-
ley near Union Station. '

Both locations were re -
mended last month by consulfgnntls
ed by the city to study the
aquarium plan. Soon after the find-
ings were released, however, Peiia
ggceme city had more
n
fogthe gaquariumafld would not pay
0o officials sa lans f
aquatic exhibit hav)e got sungrygtl.e
“I don’t think anything’s com-
pletely dead,” said Robert Bon-
, a member of‘the zoo’s board
of trustees. “We felt it would be

proper that we full
two sites.” y explore these

Cambridge Seven Associates,
the Massachusetts firm hired to
study the plan, originally was to
complete the feasibility study as
part of a $175,000 contract with
Denver. The consultants have been
paid $60,000 to date for the prelimi-
nary study.

The: zoo trustees will conduct the
feaSIbihty study instead at no cost,
Bonham said Thursday. He esti-
mated it will take six to nine
months to analyze the construc-
tion, land acquisition and operating
costs of building an aquarium at ei-
ther site.

aquarium plans _

If constructed at either down-
town location, the aquarium would
become Denver’s third most popu-
lar tourist attraction, drawing be-
tween 750,000 and 900,000 visitors a
year, Cambridge Seven projected.

It would be surpassed only by
the zoo, which had 950,000 visitors
last year, and the Museum of Natu~
ral History, which attracted 1.25
million visitors in 1985.

The third site recommended - a
location adjacent to the Denver
Zoo in City Park — would have at-
tracted from 300,000 to 500,000 visi-
tors a year, Cambridge said.

Admission fees and concession
revenues could pay to operate the
aquarium, but wouldn’t cover any
.of its projected $30 million con-
struction costs, Cambridge’s pre-
liminary study concluded. _

Denver probably .won’t contrib-
ute tax dollars to the construction,
mayoral aide Sandy Drew said
Thursday. The city might help ar-
range the land purchase, however.

“I’m really pleased with what
the zoo has decided to do,” she
said. “Someone needed to step for-
ward and say we’re going to lead

the charge. I didn’t think it was go-
ing to die.” ;

' For years, zoo officials have
wanted to build the aquarium adja-
cent to their facilities. They al-
ready have $3 million from city
bonds and at least $500,000 in pri.
vate donations lined up for that
project.

But Pena rejected the zoo site
last month, responding to City
Park neighbors who fervently ar-
gued against any further expansion)
of the park’s cultural facilities.

 




THE BOSTON GLOBE — October 27, 1986
52 THE BOSTON omen glVlONDAY. OCTOBER 27. 1986

Wildlife indictments seen as only
Officials expect more charges in Alaska case ti

By Ann Parson p Of

Special to the Globe

A federal grand jury in Roanake. Va., has indicted
two individuals for violating numerous wildlife pro—
tection laws and a third for a related firearms
charge, setting in motion what authorities predict
will become lengthy litigation involving a big-game
wildlife guide and many others, all suspects in the
illegal taking of wildlife, primarily in Alaska.

“I suspect there are as many people involved in
this that we still don’t know about as those we do.”
said Donald Patterson, the US Fish and Wildlife Ser-
vice inthigator handling the case.

“it’s been like opening Pandora’s Box," Patterson
said of the undercover investigation begun in June
when Virginia game warden Parke Slater received a
tip concerning a mounted bald eagle in the Stras—
burg. Va., home of Arthur W. Smith, a 58-year-old
licensed guide who owns a campsite in Alaska.

Conducting a search of Smith’s Virginia resi—
dence, state and federal wildlife agents seized, along
with the eagle mount, a quantity of other protected
wildlife. records of activities. and slides and photo-
graphs of hunting trips that helped identify a large
group of persons who, with Smith as their guide,
have allegedly illegally hunted Alaska animals.

To date, most of the suspects are from Virginia.
As new leads develop. however, the investigation is
spilling into Ohio, North Carolina, West Virginia,
Texas, California and other states. '

Other charges

Related alleged infractions reportedly include the
killing of big game without required licenses and
tags. the taking of migratory birds, bald eagles and
other protected species, the smuggling of wildlife
from one state to another, and the killing and impor—
tation of endangered and threatened species.

While some of the suspects claim ignorance of al-

 

leged wrongdoings, saying Smith assured them his
status as licensed guide provided them with carte-
blanche hunting privileges. one individual told Pat-
terson he had considered the odds of being appre-
hended very slim because of Alaska’s size and re
moteness. '

The wildlife so far confiscated from various resi-
dences includes a mounted black bear sow with two
cubs (the killing of a sow with her cubs being a state
crime), mounted mountain goats and caribou, a Cen-
tral American jaguar hide and a hawksbill turtle.
(both endangered species), wolverine hide, black bear
and Alaskan brown bear rugs, mounts of a big
horned sheep, great horned owl, snowy owl, pileated
woodpecker. and other as yet unidentified birds. Fed—
eral and state agents expect to seize as much or more
as the investigation continues to unfold.

During the case’s first hearings, Smith was
charged with eight counts of receiving and possesing
firearms, one count of conspiracy and two counts un-
der the Lacey Act. The guide was also cited with vio-r
lating the Eagle Protection Act. While bald eagles are

the iceberg

 

 

 

 

 

US Department of the Interior photo
Evidence gathered by US Fish and Wildlife Ser-
vice agents includes mounted or stuffed big game
illegally taken from Alaska. The examples depict-
ed here include a grizzly bear rug, two mountain
goats, a jaguar rug, a magpie, a hawksbill, a sea
turtle, a pileated woodpecker and a snowy owl.

 

 




THE DENVER POST - October 21, 1986

listed as neither endangered or threatened in Alaska.
as they are in the lower 48 states, willfully killing an
eagle anywhere, (as opposed to mistakenly killing
one, can be regarded as a felony.

In 1981, new legislation significantly raised the
penalties for violating the Lacey Act, the nation’s old-
est and most basic wildlife protection law-The act
came into existence in 1900 to curb for-profit game
hunting and shield wildlife against burgeoning inter-
state and foreign trade. Among other actions, it pro—
hibits the interstate transport, or the aiding and
abetting thereof, of illegally obtained wildlife.

_ if convicted on wildlife infractions aired thus far,
Smith faces a possible 12-year jail term and fine of
$45,000.

Others charged

Also charged were Thomas Joseph Fortman, an
Ohio taxidermist, who allegedly handled an illegally
obtained jaguar hide of Smith’s, and Donna May Feet
of Strasburg, Va., suspected of an illegal firearms
purchase for Smith in October 1983. Further aligned
with the investigation, said Patterson, “are people
from every walk of life — carpenters, attorneys, Real—
tors, you name it. What they have in common is they
like to hunt.” While some of the, hunters taking part
sold their Alaska spoils, the majority kept. the ani—
mals as personal game trophies, employing taxider-
mists for the stuffing and mounting.

“If it hadn't been for the thousands of slides and
photographs we found at Smith’s, frankly i don’t
think we would have gotton anywhere,” said Patter-
son. Smith allegedly took hundreds of photographs of
hunters standing over their kill.

Once an anomaly, today, undercover investiga-

tions serve as an integral part of federally conducted KEEP A CIVIL TONGUE IN YOUR HEAD

wildlife protection. “Not long ago we were considered ,
“duck hops’” __ m. wardens _ “and probably 50 to 75 Four-year-old Gretalyn Barry casts a skeptical eye toward May-

percent of our time was spent doing uniformed cop nard, a monitor lizard. as it sticks out its tongue during a visit to
on-the-beat type of work," said James Sheridan, aS_ Alta Sierra Elementary School in Grass Valley, Calif. Students
sistant regional director of the Fish and wildlife Sap handled Maynard and other creatures from a reptile ranch and
vice's Newton, Mass-based Division of Law Enforcc— 'eamed abOUt the roles reptiles play "1 nature.

ment.

That role has changed. particularly since the
emergence of the Environmental Protection Act in
1972 and an upgraded Endangered Species Act in
1973. Agents have expended their enforcement re-
sponsibilities to reﬂect the general tightening of envi—
ronmental protections, said Ann Haas of the Fish
and Wildlife Service’s Washington office, with under-
cover work being the only productive method of pene-
trating illegal activities. In the past five years, the
agency’s Washington division alone has seen
through $1 million in fines, 156 years of jail terms,
482 years of probation, and 7,086 years of communi~
ty service for wildlife offenders. .

“The way I see it, wildlife belongs to the public,"
said Haas. “If someone violates wildlife protections
laws, then it’s the same as converting public trust. to
time’s. own profit.”

“Maﬁa-"UH a ., .

 

 

 

Associated Press

 

 

 

 

 




RESOURCES / Rick Eyerdam

Additional reporting by Robin Baikovitz, Glenna Holloway

EAT TALE

When it comes to the Florida Panther,
“The only way to resurrect what is natural
may be to resurrect it artificially.”

he Florida Panther is Florida’s state animal. It is a sickly, de-
formed and relatively impotent subspecies that belongs to a wide
ranging species of big cats whose Latin name is Fells corzcolor;
a species that is called, depending on where you live, the mountain
lion, mountain cat, catamount, puma, cougar and Florida Panther.
The official Florida Panther is said to be a member of the subspecies
coryz'; Fells concolor coryz', named after Charles Cory, the 19th cen-
tury taxonomist who first described it while hunting big game in
Florida. There are at least 25 subspecies of Fells 0072001071 And, some
people would say, every time another litter of Florida Panthers is born,
a new subspecies is added.
The contemporary presence of the Florida Panther in Florida was
not scientifically documented until 1981. It became the official state
CONTINUED ON PAGE 140

PHOTOGRAPr-é'i" BY SC”??? ‘l‘r’iLLiAhiSOzx!

:- o," m!“? '
1 \\: '.
" t ‘ 1‘
. _\\, ‘
' " 7‘35.
”'11 e

 

Morris (left) is a panther that lives in Florida, not a Florida
Panther. The picture above is a very rare photo of a native
Florida Panther in the Fakahatchee Strand. It is believed
to be one of only 24 panthers remaining in South Florida.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MIAIV I / SOUTH FLORIDA

MAGA

’7
L!

m
_
N
O
A
I
6
OO
9

 

 




PHOTOGRAPH: BILL HELD

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cat breeder Frank Weed with a baby cougar: “There never was a separate native breed.”

animal in 1982 after game ofﬁcials accidentally
killed one with a drug dart while trying to
capture it for positive identification. At that
time they believed there were no more than
30 of the big cats, all living near Alligator
Alley. Now, it seems, there is an embarrass-
ment of Florida Panthers roaming as far and
wide as West Kendall, Big Cypress, St. Augus-
tine, the Panhandle and even Louisiana. In
South Florida, where the official $250,000—a—
year panther study recognizes only 24 genu-
ine Florida Panthers, the presence of the big
cat has probably increased some land values
because of the possibility the land may be
added to other federal land condemned for
preservation. And you can bet the owners of
otherwise valueless swamp land have been
spotting panther tracks as big as dollar signs.

In Central and North Florida a surprising
number of undocumented panther sightings

and the chance that the state may reintroduce
a Florida Panther population has developers,
loggers and deer hunters worried they may
soon lose the unrestricted use of wilderness
lands. And the potential for controversy has
been further amplified by the existence of an
elaborate scientific debate about whether the
Florida Panther is a unique, significant sub-
species worth spending about 310 million each
to reorder development and highway con-
struction plans.

The endangered Florida Panther tale, even
state conservation officials admit, is the perfect
vehicle to solve an otherwise insolvable envi-
ronmental dilemma: how to convince the tax-
payers to pay the price of preserving a won—
derfully natural, ecologically significant but
uninhabitable swamp or forest. It is hard to
motivate a public crusade for the preserva-
tion of the white crowned pigeon. ivory billed

woodpecker or gopher frog. The grander crit-~
ters inspire causes, sacrifices, politicians and
contributions: creatures with symbolic value
like eagles and manatees and, yes, the Florida
Panther. And so, the fact that the Florida Pan-
ther is not an endangered species and may
not even be a unique endangered subspecies
has done little to dissuade state and federal
officials from trying to save it. The federal
government didn’t even ask for proof.

Instead, the Federal Wildlife Service is al-
ready buying 30,000 acres in the Big Cypress
as a national panther refuge at a cost of $12
million. Outgoing Gov. Bob Graham, as part
of his “Save Our Everglades” program, has
asked the federal government to spend $150
million to buy another 128,000 acres of the
Big Cypress swamp to provide a habitat for
the Florida Panther. His opponent Sen. Paula
Hawkins then hopped on the panther band-
wagon by announcing the $150—million federal
commitment as if Graham had nothing to do
with it. The South Florida Water Management
district has recently challenged a plan by Col—
lier Enterprises to convert 75,000 acres of South
Florida “panther habitat” to citrus groves.
Legislation has been proposed to force oil
companies to pay severance tax into a panther
trust fund before they can carve drilling roads
into the wilderness. Since hundreds of ani-
mals are killed each year crossing Alligator
Alley, a few of them panthers, Florida game
officers are now wielding radar guns and is-
suing tickets to eco-criminals who zoom
through panther zones. And plans to convert
Alligator Alley to l-75 have been modified at
a cost of $13 million to accommodate 23 pan-
ther crossings.

This is not to say that everyone agrees that
the Florida Panther is unique enough to change
the speed limit, let alone justify spending $10
million each in their name. At a recent big
cat seminar held in Minnesota, the nation‘s
big cat experts divided, as they often do, into
two camps. On one side are the classical tax-
onomists who make a living identifying new
and different species and subspecies of dead
animals. Classical taxonomists examine ani-
mal morphology: the shape and size of skulls
or the texture and color of the coat fur or
feathers. The classical taxonomists believe
coryz‘ to be unique in as many as four ways.
It has a “Roman” nose, a broader head, a bent
tail and a cowlick on its back.

On the other side are the technocrats
known as molecular geneticists who claim
they can tell one subspecies from another by
the structure of the genes. The molecular
geneticists maintain that there is no major
difference between subspecies of the great cats.
They point out that there is no question the
Florida Panther can and does mate successful-

 

140 MIAMI/SOUTH FLORIDA NOVEMBER 1986

 




RESOURCES

 

ly with other oougars, a biological impossibili-
ty if there is a genetic difference significant
enough to indicate a distinct subspecies. And,
if the Florida Panther does not have a clean
pair of genes, distinct from all other panthers,
it could lose its endangered status.

Without a pair of pure genes capable of
breeding, there is no legal status for the fed-
eral or state government to provide protection
to any animal through environmental land
management.

Frank Weed, the secretary-manager of the
Florida Endangered Species Research Associa-
tion and a 35-year veteran breeder and trainer
of big cats, is one of several experts who claim
the Florida Panther is a biological hoax.

“In the first place, there never was a sep-
arate native breed. The Florida Panther is not
a panther, he is a cougar,” says Weed. “We
know where there are over 150 cougars/pan-
thers in the state and as far up as Alabama,
and some are also found in Louisiana,” attests
Weed, who claims that the same Florida sub-
species is found in Colorado, Wyoming and
Montana, as well as in Georgia, North and
South Carolina, Tennessee and Arkansas.
Weed asserts that even if the Florida Panther
was once a pure-bred cat, by now the gene
pool has been diluted by the releases of several
non-native cougars.

George Campbell, a Florida environmental-
ist and wildlife expert, agrees. He knows of
at least six non-native cougars that have been
released by their owners in South Florida in
recent years. With a documented native pop-
ulation said to be under 30, this 20 percent
increase in the breeding stock has signiﬁcantly
increased the odds that the native population
is already modified, he claims.

Tom Logan, bureau chief of wildiife research
for the Fiorida Game and Freshwater Fish
Commission concedes that several non-native
panthers roam South Florida. Yet he responds,
“The Florida Panther is distinct from other
subspecies because it has been geographically
isolated for so long and has developed subtle,
but definite characteristics.” Logan believes—
and hopes—interbreeding has not taken place.

The three distinct taxonomical markings
of the Felz's concolor coryi are the white ﬂecks
of hair around the animal’s neck and should-
ers A cowlick or ridge can also be found on
the ..2.: back, where the 1... runs the Opposite
way, creating a whirling effect. Its taii is also
different, forming a crook where the last three
tail vertebrae are fused in a 90-degree angle.
In addition, Logan says, it has been proved
that all three markings almost always occur
simultaneously in the coryz' subspecies.

“They don’t check other subspecies," Weed
retorts. “Besides, Florida cats do not have all
three markings.” He cites incidents of sup-

posed state panthers, found dead, which lack
one of the three traits. And he claims the tails
get broken by the mother when the kittens
are cleaned and that the white ﬂecks are
caused by tick bites.

But the most important factor for many
Florida Panther advocates is the anatomical
make-up of the cat. The final determining fac—
tor is their skulls, which, in IOO-year-old mu-
seum specimens, are a little broader than most
other cougars. And they are Roman-nosed,
which means the nasal area higher arched.

__Dr. James D. Lazell, who holds a PhD. in
biology, wrote a definitive paper on the diag—
nosis and identification of Felts concolor. In
that paper he said that he could tell only 80
percent of the time what region a skull was
from and then only if he had some know-
ledge of the land area.

Yet the crusade goes on, because, frankly,
the crusade to save the panther is the crusade
to save the wilderness. When nature is im-
periled. its salvation is often entrusted to one
symbolic species. To preserve North Key Largo,
the Key Largo wood rat, a darker brown sub-
species of the common pack rat, was said to
be endangered. To preserve the manatee, state
law slows down drunken boaters and strives
to keep pure our near—shore waters. To pre-
serve our swamps and forests, the logic goes.
we must preserve the Florida Panther.

State game and conservation officials.
when pressed, concede the symbolic value of
the Florida Panther. Says Elton Gissendanner,
a veterinarian who is head of the Florida De-
partment of Natural Resources: “The Florida
Panther is doubly symbolic. It is symbolic of
the failure of mankind to do the things neces-
sary to preserve his fellow beings on this
world And he (the panther} is a valuable
symbol if we can taite it and use his east
gered status to accomplish the goal of saving
the wilderness and all the wilderness crea-
tures, great and small, as well as try and save
the panther."

Gissendanner admits that the Florida Pan-
ther may not be all that much different than
other cougars, and therefore, as a species, it
is not facing extinction. But for the needs of
the state, and the need to mobilize public
awareness and resources, our endangered sub-
species the best thing we have going."

Gisseridar‘sner continues. ”We don't even
know for sure if we can saw the 20 or ’
panthers that we know live in South Florida,
no matter how hard we try or how much
money we spend. Another consideration is
economic. Are they worth anything? Are they
worth saving? It‘s the same as manatees. Sure
we could bring in manatees from Africa. But
when we try to save the animals we have,
we learn from this experience. Because who

knows what the next species may be? Who
knows if the panther or the manatee or some
other species might hold the key to curing
some disease. One thing for certain, when a
particular set of genes become extinct, there is
no bringing them back. And there are the
ethical questions. Does man have the ethical
right to extinguish any species or subspecies?
Who's to choose? Who gets to play God?”

Logan, who also heads the Florida Game
and Freshwater Fish Commission’s Panther Re
search project, shares Gissandanner‘s assess—
ment of the PR value of an endangered
panther.

“The irony of all this talk about the preser-
vation of Big Cypress, access to minerals.
management of water resources and manage—
ment of hunters.” Logan maintains, “is that
all of this is said to be for the benefit of the
panther to prevent extinction. But the fact is
that it is much more important to us than
it is to the panther. Because the land the pan—
ther is dependent on is also the only source
of fresh water and clean air for the people."

Logan says he does not get involved with
the “legal issue of classi ication. The game
and ﬁsh commission’s intent is preserving the
Florida Panther as it currently exists. Academic
arguments are silly and self-defeating to the
panther.”

The classic example of the Florida Panther
as environmental symbol and solution is the
construction of the so-called “panther cross-
ings” when Alligator Alley is converted to
l-75. Panther advocates point with horror to
the fact that four cats have been l’~.t in the
past three years trying to cross Alligator Alley
and two were killed crossing: State Road 29.
If the states totai numbers are correct, that‘s
20 percers: oi" the. population. The at};
don‘t mention, however, that two other pan
thers were accidentally killed by conservation
agents, one was killed in a fight with another
cat, and three were shot to death. one by
Seminole Indian tribal chairman James Billie.
Billie slew the panther when he was a medi-
cine-man-in-training because he needed the
panther parts for his tribal rituals.

In addition to panthers, thousands of other
animals are smushed each year crossing South
Florida‘s two trans-peninsnia *i. ii. ex-
Plains Logan. most c‘[ the .. - cross
:3: Virtually the s; creation <,.::‘ .3.
“WM interstate across Florida poses sev-
era additional probiems. First, it would create
a potential dam, halting the critical fresh
water sheet ﬂow southward from Lake Okee-
chobee. Stopping the sheet ﬂow prevents re-
charging of the underground aquifer which is
the source of our water supply. That problem
was addressed when state and federal engi-
neers designed canals to parallel both sides

-,u-‘.f r:-
Intact:

1 '. {”11"}? ._
ﬁi.‘-‘. - l Kit)
\ Jr .

 

142 MIAMI/SOUTH FLORIDA NOVEMBER 1986

 




RESOURCES

 

of the new highway. The canals will collect
fresh water ﬂowing from the north side that
will pass under the roadway through culverts
to be evenly distributed by the canal on the
other side.

But the solution to the sheet ﬂow problem
meant the creation of a virtually insurmoun-
table barrier to animal passage When the road
was being designed in the mid—19703, the state
suggested 40 wildlife crossings, 13 under
bridges which would be built to span stand-
ing water and the remaining 27 at high-trafﬁc
wildlife crossing areas where the road would
be elevated so the wildlife could cross under
at sea level. At each crossing the canals would
be spanned by an earthen bridge leading to
the underpass. This many bridges would add
millions of dollars to the total project. To
spend that kind of money on nondescript
“wildlife” such as raccoons, possum and deer
was a difﬁcult concept to swallow and the
federal funders balked at providing 90 per-
cent of the anticipated $SO-million cost.

Fortunately, state game ofﬁcials discovered
the endangered Florida Panther before the 1-75
plans were ﬁnalized. Panthers tend to inhabit
distinct territories as large as 100 square miles.
And they often roam 25 miles a day in search
0f food or, seasonally, a mate. Such a barrier
as 1—75 and its parallel canals would radically
alter the natural migratory patterns of all
South Florida land animals and especially the
panthers. And so the state compromised and
reduced its request to 23 proposed wildlife
crossings which were dubbed “panther cross—
ings.” The feds still wouldn’t pay for the cross-
ings. But, with the simple name change, the
crossings were made sufﬁciently appealing for
the State of Florida to agree to commit $13
million from its own funds to make them a
reality.

Other problems facing the Florida Panther
may not be so easily resolved. A disease called
feline panleucopenia, a kind of distemper fatal
to all panther kittens, was found in 85 per-
cent of samples taken from 20 living and dead
Florida Panthers in a study conducted by
Melody Roelke, a University of Florida veter-
inarian for the Game and Freshwater Fish
Commission. Adult cats with the virus can
survive the disease, but there is a great fear
that feline distemper is claiming many, if not
all, panther kittens. Mother’s milk provides
temporary immunity to the disease and no
Florida Panther kittens old enough to be
weaned have been seen in the wild.

Roelke also tested four male panthers and
found abnormalities in more than 90 percent
of their sperm cells. She predicted that it is
safe to assume that other males suffer the
same problem. “The abnormality in sperm
probably reﬂects the overall situation among

(Florida) panthers,” says Roelke. This is prob-
ably related to inbreeding.

Furthermore, many of the Florida Panthers 1
inthe study group are weak and malnour- \
ished, which can be attributed in part to the ‘

decreasing numbers and wide dispersal of deer ;
in South Florida. On average an adult panther l
kills one deer a week. But the deer population 1
in South Florida is highly concentrated by un- 1
natural back-ﬂooding, then widely dispersed 3
when artiﬁcially induced Everglades droughts l

l
l
l

dry up the foliage. The deer population can-
not be stabilized until the wilderness area is
allowed to return to the natural cycle of burn-
ing and ﬂooding which controls the deer’s
life cycle, says Logan. But, Logan adds, agri-
cultural and commercial interests near the ‘
wilderness are worried about the inconveni- i
ence of uncontrolled burning and ﬂooding l
and may oppose the state’s plans.

Finally, the Florida Panther’s endangered i
status may soon be doomed by science. Logan
has sent samples of tissue that were taken u
from what he believes are pure-bred Florida
Panthers, Felts concolor coryi, to a genetic
specialist at the National Cancer Institute. Says
Logan: “Within the next couple of months
we will know their genetic diversity. And the
next question is what are the consequences
of low genetic diversity. Are they so inbred
with genetically linked defects that they can’t
be saved without the introduction of new
genetic material?”

If the results of the tests prove Weed’s as-
sertion that the Florida Panther is already a
half-breed, the subspecies could lose its en-
dangered status. If Logan is correct and the
breed is pure, but proves to be genetically
damaged by inbreeding, the result could be .
the same. In that case the state plans to breed '1
captive Florida Panthers with imports and re- “
lease the offspring as unprotected, experimen- ‘
tal populations into wetlands and forests ,
throughout Florida. The prospect for such a
fate is sufficiently likely that a test cross-
breeding program is already underway. But
the opposition to artificially introducing an
experimental population into Central and 1
North Florida is also growing among hunters, l
loggers, and farmers. I

In any case, Logan says, the state does not E
plan to abandon its efforts to preserve our l
semi-native big cat, one way or another. He ';,
says that the argument whether the Florida 1
Panther is a unique subspecies is not as im- 1
portant as its ultimate fate. The more impor- i
tant question, he believes, is whether the pan— )y
ther can be preserved in its present form or E
whether genetic manipulation will be neces-
sary to save it. Says Logan, “It may turn out i
that the only way to resurrect what is natural ;

is to resurrect it artificially.”’5

 

 




TAMPA TRIBUNE - October 10, 1986

 

Flamingo exhibit
gets off the ground

Arthur Andersen and Co. donated $50,000
to Lowry Park Zoo to build a new home for

10 Chilean flamingos.

By MICHAEL DUNN
Tribune Staff Writer

A covey of pink flamingos will
make Lowry Park Zoo their home
next year, thanks to a $50,000
. donation from the tax and ac-
counting firm of Arthur Andersen
and Co.

Martin B. Solomon, represent-~
ing the company, presented a
check to zoo officials Thursday
during a brief ceremony on the
Esplanade at Tampa City Center.

“We welcome the opportunity
to give something back to the com-
munity in which we’ve grown and
prospered,” Solomon said. “There
was no particular reason we chose
flamingos. Everybody likes fla-
mingos, and it fits in with what we
were looking for.”

The flamingo exhibit will in-
clude about 1,850 square feet with
an 850-square-foot shallow pond
surrounded by a mud bank. Be-
yond the pond will be an embank-
ment which will elevate the fla-
mingos for better viewing.

A lush tropical setting will be
the backdrop behind the pond,
with rocks and a four-level, 7-foot

waterfall.

Zoo Director Doug Porter said
the zoo will start with about 10
Chilean flamingos, which cost
about $1,000 each.

“We wanted to stick with New
World flamingos as opposed to the
African variety,” he said. “We
think it’s important to protect
some of these species, and the
Chilean variety are usually more
available.”

The exhibit, part of Phase I of
the 200’s $20 million renovation,
will be located near the “Zoo-
tique” gift shop, Porter said.

“It’ll be the first exhibit people
see when they come into the zoo.
It should be quite a spectacular ex-
hibit,” he said. “We’ll start with
about 10 and we hope they’ll
breed. We’ll get some more and
we should end up with a nice
group of them.”

Construction on the exhibit
should be finished in about a year,
Porter said.

Arthur Andersen and Co. is a
tax accounting and audit firm
based in Chicago. It has 219 offices
in 49 countries, including seven of-
fices in Florida.

 

 

 

 

Tribune photo by JOHN COFFEEN
Martin Solomon of Arthur Andersen and Co. adjusts a plastic
flamingo during a ceremony at the Lowry Park Zoo held to
announce the accounting’s firm’s $50,000 donation to the zoo
for a flamingo exhibit.

 

 

 




TAMDA TRIBUNE - October 10, 1986

Baby Shamu makes splash into research

ORLANDO (UPI) --— The 950-
pound baby nudges up to an admir-
ing visitor and flashes a toothy
smile.

The mother, who carried the
baby 17 months, accepts a hug of-
fered in belated congratulations on
the historic delivery.

But she closely watches the
stranger moving about her daugh-
ter’s $15 million nursery, as if the
wispy human —— her species’ only
natural enemy —— might harm the 9-
foot baby.

Already the subject of intense
scientific research, network televi-
sion features and worldwide news
coverage, Baby Shamu is credited
for sending Sea World of Florida
into a year of record attendance.

She remains the only killer
whale successfully born in captivity.

Sea World officials, like curator

‘of animal behavior Dan Blasko, say
~Baby Shamu’s foremost importance
~is scientific. She is watched eight
hours a day, and her actions are
documented for research papers
under preparation.
‘ "Behaviorally, we are breaking
new ground every day,” Blasko said
.in an interview at the 6-million gal-
lon tank in Shamu Stadium, where
the calf lives with her 11-year-old
mother, Kandu, and two other adult
killer whales.

“More than anything else, she
has raised questions about our as-
sumptions of killer whale develop-
ment,” Blasko said. “We are devel-
oping a curve for the growth rate —-
physically and psychologically ——
that’s never been done before.”

At birth, Baby Shamu weighed
350 pounds and measured 6 feet. She
was expected to nurse for about a
year but seems to be weaning quick-
ly, now preferring fish —— about 50
pounds a day.

Marine biologists are especially
interested in knowing how much of
the killer whale’s behavior is instinc-
tive and how much is learned. One
reason for past failed births in cap-
tivity is mothers haven’t “bonded”
with calves and have become con-
fused at babies’ attempts to nurse.

So trainers taught Kandu, who is
17 feet long and weighs about 5,000
pounds, how to nurse during the
final months of her pregnancy. The
baby was conceived at Sea World’s
San Diego park. Kandu was brought
to Florida in a chartered jet.

Baby Shamu sometimes per-
forms the same leaps, fluke “waves”
and back swimming her adult com-
panions were trained to do. Yet

Blasko said none of the baby’s tricks.

were taught by humans.

“It’s all learned behavior from
the mother and the other whales,”
he said. “More often than not she
learns through mimicking. She’s
mimicked them almost from day
one.”

For now, she is the undisputed
star at Sea World. And with killer
whales known to survive up to 25
years in the wild, the bulk of zoologi-
cal knowledge should continue to
grow with her.

“She’ll continue to learn, but I
don’t know how much we’ll be able
to teach her,” Blasko said. “She’ll
probably teach us a lot more.”

 

 

 

 

 

’ UPI photo‘ 5

 

 

Mother Kandu nuzzles Baby Shamu, shown here as a 2-month-
old, 400-pound calf. Now twice that size, Baby Shamu recently

celebrated her birthday at Sea World in Orlando.




TO THE

BOSTON GLOBE
Oct. 13, 1986

I Globe staff poshot/K 1th Jenkins
er from Australia, top, holds the audience spell-

p

0 know an African pygmy goat

get t

An aboriginal danc
bound yesterday during a performance at the Zoo Bash in Franklin ‘
Park Zoo. Below, Emily Torres, 3, of Quincy, and her father, Rafael. :_

 

v '3'”: n




FT. LAUDERDALE SUN-SENTINEL
October 21, 1986

That’s entertainment

Sun-Sentinel wire services

 

 

Coco gave a
m is c h i e v o u s
glance at the
chattering
c r o w d , t h e n
spat loudly in
their faces.

“This chim-
panzee is con-
trolling its en-
vironment ——
it’s manipulat-
ing its human

audience,” said
- Dr. Brian Ber-
A playful chimp ‘ tram, 42’ an an-
imal-behavior expert at the London Zoo.

“Apes in a zoo have a degree of control over what
they see — they can control visitors and to some ex-
tent manipulate the public,” Bertram said.

So for a year, the London Zoo has been experi-
menting with new ways to pep up the lives of its
caged apes. Results so far have been varied.

Lively chimpanzees loved an orange-juice ma-
chine and an artificial termite mound stuffed with
raspberry jam and baby food, Brertram said. But
they rapidly lost their enthusiasm when keepers
filled the machine with plain water.

Twycross Zoo, near Leicester, is one of several
zoos which use color TV to brighten the lives of their
apes. Director Molly Badham said westerns are pop-
ular because they’re full of action.

“But what really sends the apes berserk is the
wrestling,” she said. “They get up and thump the set
and make warning noises for us to behave ourselves.
They think humans are quite mad.”

THE HOUSTON POST - 10/15/86

 

BOSTON GLOBE - Oct. 1986

 

 

 

 

AP hoto
Rarity — Cora, a black rhino p
housed at the Crandon Park Zoo
1n Miami, is one of the few such
beasts to give birth in captiviity.

 

AP photo;
rn in a

A giant panda cub, bo

 

Tokyo 200, peers from its perch on a scale at its first weigh-
Tuesday. The 136-day-old cub weighs 1 1.5 pounds.

Panda pounds

mg

 




ATLANTA JOURNAL/CONSTITUTION - Oct. 26, 1986

Halloween at the zoo

Not knowing that inside the "Willie B” suit is a volunteer worker Saturday, as youngsters
his father, 3-year-old Lawson Feltman looks were treated to a Halloween afternoon, com-
a little frightened as John Feltman tells him plate with haunted house and costumed zoo
Halloween tales at 200 Atlanta. Feltman was keepers.

 

 

 

 

 




Elephant fund drive -
has reaChed $7,928

Eight-year-old Brooke Adams from White
County Elementary School drew a picture of an
elephant, put it in an envelope with $1 and sent it
off to the fund to buy a new baby elephant for

—"——__7

was

Zoo Atlanta’s Starlet, recently named by USA
Today as one of the country’s favorite zoo animals,
is a very well-dressed little elephant. Although her
wardrobe is not haute couture, she has two blankets
in her colors: One is green and gold, and the other is
pink. She does tricks, and she rumbles when her
chest is scratched.

By the way, the bottom of an elephant’s foot i‘
not hard —- but rather like tennis shoes.

Zoo Atlanta. «s a.» s

Her gift brought the fund-raising effort, spon-
sored by The Atlanta Journal and The Atlanta
Constitution, to more than $7,928 after two weeks.

The campaign goal is to raise $20,000 to buy
a baby African elephant to replace Coca II, who
died Sept. 26. The same kind of community fund-
raising effort in 1950 raised the money that
brought Coca II to the zoo.

The new elephant would be a companion to
Starlet O’Hara, the 4-year-old elephant acquired
by the zoo last April.

Tax-deductible contributions may be made to
Zoo Atlanta Baby Elephant Fund, Atlanta Jour-
nal-Constitution, PO. Box 1685, Atlanta, Ga.
30301. Each contributor will receive either a chil-
dren’s collectible sticker or a bumper sticker.

 

 

 

K‘-

Tﬁ/Wﬂ 7165005 -- /0 615395

 

 

 

J

" 211.3%: "

AP photo

 

 

 

 

Already in the swim of things

A baby pygmy hippopotamus appears to be dandered species native to Western Africa.
adjusting to his surroundings at Cypress Gar» This is the second birth of its kind at the zoo.
dens, where he was born Oct. 3 to parents This baby hippo, a boy, weighted in at at 10
Sonya and Morgan. Pygmy hippos are an en- pounds at birth.

 

 




city

of boats on city lakes

include golfers on city courses,

' met t.
Cat

’of services by charging those who use
them. '
((We)
the c:
vised.

history.

yowling mad about a new requirement that
cats be licensed for the ﬁrst time in Dallas’

Some cat owners and veterinarians are

animals.”

my problems of the city by putting a tax on

revenue.
cats. “You’re not going to solve the budget-

The Dallas City Council approved the in-
creases, inciuding a 40 percent jump in gar-
bage-collection fees, to help balance the
budget by bringing in $13.4 million in new

Staff writer

By’ DOUGLAS (3. LYONs

cat owners

vaccination.

when the cats get their annual rabi'

That

.- 5 Budget and Research Depart-
Besides cat

; charging peopl

y

New’fees
raise

cry on all our fees
‘ty’
It’

of our costs 111

3

spayed animals or $

owners
9

f »

raise $57 .4' million this year.

e too much.”

5 a delicate balance of
' fees you can recoup withbut

re trying to approach full
5 why our fees have been re-

said Cindy

I

er charges when it took effect Oct. 1.

have become aﬂash point on the city 5
schedule, which included 150 new or high-

-5
’1‘

fee

15 for fertile feline:r

fees are part of an effort to recoup the cost

son, an Oak Cliff resident who owns ﬁve
City officials explain. that the increased

Cat licenses, which cost either $7 or $15,
But the city’s effort to avoid a deﬁcit has
left some animal owners seeing red. “‘I
think an incentive to get more animals reg-
istered is to lower the fee,” said Ann Wil-
streets and vendors on downtown

petitioners to rename

launchers
owners are required to pay $7 for

Marietta in
, those paying more
city fees are expected to

cost recov-
how much

EES

no... A-25

2

\

In the ﬁrst six days licenses were
required, the city’s Department of
Health and Human Services regis-
tered 30 cats. Department ofﬁcials
expect eventually to register 16,000
cats, bringing 1n $176,000.

While raising money remains the
fees’ primary purpose, city ofﬁcials
maintain that the licenses also will
help identify cats brought into the
city’s animal shelters and bring cat
owners under the same registration
requirements as dog owners.

“When you think about it, what’s
the difference (between dogs and
cats)?” asked Bobby Boykin, su-
pervisor of the city’s animal-con—
trol program.

But some cat owners and veter-
inarians argue that pet owners may
stop inoculating their pets for ra-
bies to avoid buying licenses.

“It’s excessive for one thing,”
said Norma Salzman, a Dallas cat
breeder. “The other thing is that it
‘Will cause pet owners who may
.have cared for ﬁve or six cats in
“their neighborhoods to just turn
them loose.”

Some veterinarians, such as
alseonard Carpenter at the South

a‘¢¢w<arﬂ‘¢.-yv'sz'w'LMIWINuavIPW“‘U~'-~ . .. _

. l

omens Animal Hospital,- have ' ’- I

stopped selling animal license tags
to protest the new fees.

“From the city standpoint, the
veterinarian will suffer from it,”
said Carpenter. “Why should any-
onetome here, marinate their ani-
mal and have the net send the slip
to the city when they can go to a
clinic outside of town, and the city

"will‘never know?”

Instead of the new charges, Gary

. Bounds, president-elect of the Dal—

las County Veterinary Medical As- ,
sociation, would like to keep the
old $5 and $1.0 dog license fees and
charge no me re than $5 for cat li-
censes.

Cat licensing isn’t the only new
fee to prompt complaints. .

Stung by an increar e in two city
fees, hot dog vendor Daphne Econ-
omou, owner of Kinny Frank’s
Inc., brought her complaints to
City Hall last week. '

"The news was net surprising in
light of the city’s budget crisis, but
please don’t put me out of busi-
ness, ” Economou told the City
Council.

The ﬁrm’s monthly costs for its .
city Health Department license in-
creased from $27.08 to $41.67, and
its monthly downtown permit fee
for ﬁve carts went from $250 to '
$375, Economou said.

111' on

DALLAS TIMES HERALD - Oct. 11, 1986

 

 

 




DALLAS MORNING NEWS - Oct. 15, 1986

Getting the scoop on profits in
cleaning up after pets }

ster Bonnie Powers
DHLAHS T M139 NEQH/«D’ /0 area

phoned to say that
PETS

Rockwall Humane Society

notice for “Pooper
Scoopers of Dallas”
By ANN WILSON
Special to the Dallas Times Herald

and that as soon as
she saw it she
A charity fun match and fair is
scheduled for Nov. 1 at the 4-H

ilARERYiIl. thought of this col-
umn. We did, too.
Park in Rockwall. There will be
classes for obedience, conforma-

POWELL

g. So here’s the

~st0ry: Greg Grinnan, a 1983 graduate of

Southern Methodist University who put

himself through school by washing win-

dows, has started a business that cleans up

after your pet. “We‘ve been in business

Since the first week of August,” he says.
tion, junior Showmanship, mixed
breed competition, dog costume,
and dog-and-owner team competi-
tion. Fees are $4 for the first entry
of a dog and $3 for each additional
entry of the same dog. Trophies.
ribbons and prizes will be award-

"BuSiness is picking up every day."
ed. For more information, call

 

plans fun match
Nov. 1

Inspiration came from his own back
yard. “My wife (Ellen) teaches swimming
lessons in our back yard and we got a con.
ple of golden retrievers in June,” he ex-
plains. Does one need a more complete ex-
planation?

For $11.95 per month — slightly higher
with each additional pet — Grinnan comes
out to the place once a week and tidies up,
depositing the deposits in your trash. (He’ll
continue to throw away the parcels until he
comes across a commercial use for the
byproduct, he says.)

The business currently serves 82 yards,
Grinnan says, and he's his lone employee,
although he does have four people distrib
uting ﬂiers for him. “I don’t expect a lot of
competition in this job. . . .. You really kind

722-4311 or Bernadette Ray at. the
Rockwall County Humane Somety.

722-5133. WILDLIFE

Stopping a
Skin Trade

Fast—growing ﬁnancial ser—
vices and aggressive retailing
long ago transformed Singa-
pore into an Asian power-
house. Yet the island nation is
also notorious for a less reputa—
ble trade. The US. Fish and
Wildlife Service has slapped a
total ban on wildlife imports
from Singapore because of its
refusal to obey international
protections for rare animals. A
typical victim: the pangolin.
a cute-as-a-button mammal.
rather like an anteater. that is
on the endangered list in Ma-
laysia. Indonesia and Thai-
land but has been winding up
in American—made handbags

of have to be tolerant of dogs."

Grinnan says people are also “kind of
surprised when they find out I have a home
in North Dallas -— that I’m a kind of yuppie
doing something like this."

The pangolin: endangered—and stuffed

to abide by the animal-protec—
tion covenants in the Conven-
tion on International Trade in
Endangered Species. More—
over, the government protests.
the embargo has cut off the le-
gitimate export of some $12
million worth of bred-in-Sin-

 

and cowboy boots. The illicit
trafﬁc is covered up with
sketchy documents that omit
the country of origin.
Singapore insists that the
ban penalizes the nation even

 

 

though it has already dCCldCt)

a ore tro ical ﬁsh.
g P P ,,,,_.—»/
"ﬁr/M

.4.

 




q
(I
K
m
m
(I
m
F
“J
r.

She founded Dogwear, i canine
fasthn line, in 1982. iiene and her hus-
band. Irwin, who owns a company that
builds store interiors, have an apart-

ment in Manhattan, and they weekend
in Bucks County. Pa,

Though Hochberg says her Dogue
days are not entirely behind her, her
next project may provoke a woof of
dismay among her dogged devotees.
The proposed subject: cat couture.

TOBY KAHN

, -..: it .
Hochberg’s West Highland
White terrier, Bubbles, don-
ned a veil for Dogue’s cover.
llene’s four other dogs appear
elsewhere in the book.

 




(\l'lllht

NJNLI MORAN

PEOPLE WEEKLY

Top Dog

Hochberg and Bubbles spent a Dogue day
afternoon in the studio. While the goods
and services in the book are legit, the ads,
like the one below, were fabricated.

 

October 27, 1986

ILENE HOOHBERG PROVES HER BITE
IS WORSE THAN HER BARK IN HER
SPOOF OF CANINE COUTURE

llene Hochberg had been warned: Cat
books sell; dog books don’t. But that
didn’t stop her. She wanted to prove
everyone wrong and doggone it,

she did. Her recently issued fashion
parody, Dogue(Main Street Press,
$8.95) is so successful that most of the
publishing world has been left with its
tail between its legs.

Dogue, of course, is a spoof of
Vogue, the archetype of fashion maga-
zines. Hochberg, 31, has filled its pages
with four-legged models draped in
canine couture, typifying her fashion
dogma. Hotels for hounds, dream dog—
houses and a workout page featuring
Jane Fido are but a few of the topi-
cal articles. There’s also a “Dogs Are
Barking About” column and a Q&A
beauty page where a Yorkshire terrier
with dry, fly-away hair asks how she

the uniform of mi werlroday world before heading
downlotheoﬂkn» I "

HANK luiilleR

can “achieve a fresher, more pulled-
together look.” Even the ads stay

in theme, hawking Kennel No.5 per-
fume, Rufflon nail enamel and Bark-
glama minks.

Despite being turned down by most
major publishers, Dogue sold out its
huge first printing of 125,000 by publi-
cation date. Now in its third printing,
Dogue is a Literary Guild selection and
options have been placed on it in
France, the Netherlands and Japan.

Dogue is a direct descendant of an-
other Hochberg publication, 1983’s
Dogwear Daily, a playful imitation of
Women ’3 Wear Daily. At the time,
Hochberg was designing a line of _
clothes for dogs and Dogwear was
meant to create an awareness of her
business. After getting thousands of
responses, Hochberg realized she’d
been barking up the wrong tree. “While
people liked the clothes,” she says,
“they loved the newspaper.” So she
put her designing business on hold and
started writing a book.

For two years Hochberg researched
the pet market. To capture the slick,
high—fashion appeal of beauty maga-
zines, llene hired fashion photogra—
phers. She designed all the clothes
used in the fashion layouts but freely
admits she copied the styles of real
designers, who are given credit, of
sorts. Thus, one of the dogs models a
denim jacket by Ruff Lauren, while a
wide—eyed spaniel shows off a gold
embroidered cape by Yves Saint Ber—
nard. Bill Blass (also known as Bow
Blass) was so enchanted with Dogue
that he ordered 350 copies to give
away at a charity affair.

Hochberg, née Rosenthal, grew up
in Yonkers, NY She has not always
been putting on the dog but has al-
ways been involved ln clothes and
fashion. The eldest daughter of a den—
tist and a housewife, Hochberg would
often be dragged to a friend or rela-
tive’s house by her mother to advise
them on what clothes went well to-
gether. The first thing Hochberg would
ask for on her return from summer
camp was a copy of Vogue. She grad—
uated from Cornell University with a
BS. in design and environmental anal-
ysis in 1976. Hired by the Abraham anc
Straus department store, she eventu-
ally became a fashion coordinator,

 




TAMPA TRIBUNE - Oct.

10, 1986

2 Spring Hill women
look on in horror
as man kills kitten

Witnesses said the man tried to give them two
kittens. When they refused the offer, he tried

to break the animals’

By SANDRA ZEC‘
Tribune Staff writer

‘SPRINGHILL -— A 3-month-old
kitten was stamped to death Wednes-
dﬂ)’ night by a man who couldn’t
give the animal away. according to
the Ramada Sheriffs Office. '

Whﬁi‘cials Said Thursday
they will turnthe matter over to the

State Attorney’s Qﬂice to determine
whether the man‘whol'kiiled the kit-
tent-rill be charged with animal ‘cru-

eh -
4 e incident;{eccurred on Salem
Court at abdut.0‘,vrp.m._ as Elizabeth
Gadd .andh._.P.attl¢ia Bender were
standing in their yard. According to
Sheriff’s attics reperts, a man
stopped his carnal! walked over to
them holding a vmyandcreamcol-
bred kitten and a? white kitten by
'thell'hmfﬁ ' 5‘

The man ashed the women if
they wanted'theanimais. When they
remand. “tried to break the neck
of the gray-and-‘eream kitten, the
women told, a deputy.

ﬁe theggwalked tqward his car,

necks.

threw the kitten into the road and
started jumping on her head, Gadd
and Bender reported. '

Donald Feener was across the
street in his yard when the incident
occurred. He said he saw the man
walk toward his car.

"I went back to what I was doing.
Next thing, I heard the women

«screaming and the white cat was

running toward their house,” Feener
said.

The cats’ assailant then drove
away, reports said.

Animal Control Officer Pam
Allen, who retrieved the body from
the street, said the kitten was a fe-
male about 13 weeks old.

Sheriff’s officials have a suspect
in the incident, but they have not yet
arrested him. Lt. Michael Hensley
said the matter will be turned over
to the State Attorney’s, Office .

Assistant State Attorney Ken Jo-
hansen said the cat’s assailant could
face a maximum penalty of a year
in jail and a $5,000 fine if he is con-
victed ofthecrime. L.

 

USA TODAY — October 28, 1986

CROSS COUN
RECYCLING

 

Alice sits on her perch. stretching her royal wing. A scuthern
bald eagle, 'she has only one wing due to a gunshot wound. She
can never return to the wild. and is now a permanent resrdent -
of the Tropical Audubon Society in Dade County. Florida.

AliCe is part of an environmental education program started
in 1981 by David Hitzigadirector of education for the Tropical
Audubon Society Education Center in Miami, FL. The program
is intended to offer children and adults a first hand look at .
Florida's wildlife, while raising respect for animals. .. ;

"When the program started. 1 was using a little compact car. 5
said Hitzig. "Now i have a station wagon. We have so many neat '.
things to bring in to show the kids and adults, but I need a .
bigger vehicle. What i really need is a van, especrally because i

H

can't fit the bald eagle's cage in my car. . . ,
Hearing of Hitzig's dilemma, the Dade County Federation of ..

Women's Clubs decided to institute analuminum can recycling
proiect to raise fundsrto buy a new van for Hitzig. Thirty—nine .
clubs and Dade‘ County schools are involved in the recycling 2
effort that will kick off this fall. According to Alice von Suskil, ;
state conservation chairman for the Florida Federation~ of ‘ ‘
WOmen‘s Clubs. community response to theproiect already, has
been fantastic. " . .. . ,
4 "We're goingall .out to make this sucCeed.'. said von Suskil.
"As a matter of fact. rm delighted to report we already have

 

cans com-ingrout of ourearsl"

 




HOUSTON POST - Oct.

10, 1986

Small—town couple

ppens pet cemetery
’eople 'very attached'

RICK SMITH
srman Democrat

 

{OWE (AP) -- Sidney Henley
luried here.

30 are Lady Sellars, Blazer
nt, Inky, a bulldog named Bee-
3 and Tu Tu, “A Fine Little
mauzer,” according to the
we marker.

Patrick and Marion Hunt built
5 cemetery for pets after mak-
‘ two discoveries about south-
1 Grayson County: The soil is
rd, and hearts are kind.

)og lovers -— they own 14 —
. Hunts have owned and oper-
rd AAA Boarding Kennels for
int seven years.

they decided about a year ago
add a small pet cemetery near
2 creek that borders their land.
“It’s a problem that everyone
res: What are we going to do
en the dogs die?” said Mrs.
nt, a registered nurse who
m’t quite lost her British ac-
It after 25 years in the United
Ltes.

‘.‘We lost a couple of cookers
er the years, and we couldn’t
d anywhere this side of Gar-
id or Lewisville to take them
burial,” she said.

They buried their dogs in
tves along Cedar Creek.

“Vets had been talking to us
' years, saying it would be nice
have somebody to refer people
” Mrs. Hunt said.

”People become very attached
their animals,” said Hunt, an
gineer at Texas Instruments in
erman.

“They don’t want their pets

:posed of the other way,” he,

said.

The city of Sherman’s policy is
to haul dead animals to the local
landfill, a city animal shelter em-
ployee said.

The first burial in the Hunt’s
cemetery occurred about a year
ago.

“A man’s dog died,” Hunt
said. “The man owned some
property and was going to bury
the dog himself, but the ground
was so hard that there was no
way he could dig a deep enough
hole.”

Hunt used a mechanical back-
hoe to dig the nine graves in the
pet cemetery.

Some burials are quick and
simple, he said; others are more
elaborate.

“I was very touched by one
service,” Hunt said. “A family
came out, a husband, wife and
daughter.

“Their dog’s death was a tre-
mendous loss to them. The hus-
band said a very nice prayer over
the dog. He thanked God for the
pleasure and joy the dog had giv-
en them during the years and
then commended it to God’s keep-
ing . . .

“That’s the way a lot of pet
owners are. They feel that the an-
imal has given them so much
pleasure and joy. They want it to
have a final resting place, a place
they can visit.”

Pet owners visit the graves
now and then, he said. The Hunts
say the cemetery land will be set
aside permanently for that pur-
pose in their will.

Small stones mark the graves

of nine dogs in the Hunt’s ceme- _ ._

 

' AP photo

The Hunts tend their pet cemetery in Howe.

tery, all from the Sherman area.
Some of the stones are simple
markers that the Hunts provide
for $10.

Cost for burial alone is $38.50.
Plastic, cloth-lined caskets are
extra.

“I haven’t run into anyone who
thinks a pet cemetery is a silly

idea,” said Mrs. Hunt, who works
at the kennels full time.

“People think, ‘what a nice
idea!’ After all, people are very
upset when a pet dies. Dogs and
cats are like children to people,
part of the family.

“You want them to be taken
care of.”

 

 




 

:‘I

I“; .-... ,._ Sir”, I" .
Va (.44.. .1; VISIF‘P‘E'QA‘ H .3?‘;..

 

 

 

PEOPLE WEEKLY - October 20, 1986

THANKS TO THE MILK OF CANINE
KINDNFES THREE LITTLE PIGS FROM
EEIILINQIS ARE LEADING A DOG’S LEFF

Kathy Kuykendall, both

I. am III II: Grayville, lll.—-un—
spoiiec. Igod~tearihg country where
the men are men, the women are wom-
en and the pigs are dogs. At least three
of the couple’s piglets think they’re
dogs. Raised by a canine foster moth-
er, the trio display such distinctly un-

.. per-I" ine traits as standing on theirh d

l’" -
"‘9';
i:« c- . l'uJ. \.I:’-
V Kr

EJUw: it": : * Hf 13!:“Eqr 0;“: Hie door'

TheiI i I tity crisis started in July,
when Danny found the newborn pigs
drowning in a mudhole on his QOO-acre
spread. The Kuykendall family, includ-
ing daughters Angie, 10, and Kember-

Ily, 9, nourished the babies In the house

and In a backyard pen for one week.
“But the flies started getting real bad,”
says Danny, so the family reluctantly
turned the piglets loose in the yard.
What caused their reluctance was
Brandy, a 5-year-old Queensland blue
heeler who was guarding her 3-week-
old pups and greeting most strangers

Photographs by Steve Kagan

with open jaws. “She’s usuallyjeal-
ous,’ ’says Danny, “but i looked at
tI'Iere the next day and Brandy was
nursing the pigs.” Danny isn’t sure why
the unusual adoption took place, “butl
was glad to see it. That meant i didn’t
have to feed them anymore.”

Nestled in the bosom of Brandy’s
famit}, the little swine began imitating

thick ;'~»._‘_;-_-,;-....~ ‘i Inﬁcmaﬂmw jII.‘ I“.

I t or. I; es 2'3"; DIE
moo gh they don iseenI to like being

petted much," adds Danny. Their dog

days lasted until six weeks ago, when

they were weaned and moved to a pen

with their own kind. The emotional

weaning, however, is not yet complete

“They still think Brandy' is their moth- , __ , .. ..

,"sighs Danny, and the puppies— ' ‘-‘ g . 43% .I. a L

missing the pigs—“stand outside the ~» .; ._ j :-“ ‘ {Iii «-:~-I‘~"I?"“

pen whining and yelping. ” About the E - ‘ "

only one who’ s happy with the separa-

tion is Brandy. “It was a relief for her, ” Brandy (above) did“ confuse the MO

says Danny. “They still want to nurse, with he. pup; (top), says Danny. “She

and they’re a lot bigger now.” D knewthey was pigs, but she took to them.”

 




PEOPLE WEEKLY - October 13, 1986

"‘A SAINTLY SIMIAN NAMED JAMBO
comes TO THE AID or A BRITISH LAD
WHO DROPPED IN UNEXPECTEDLY

 

iNTERNATlONAL—PHOTO TRENDS _.‘ _

When 5-year-old Levan Merritt acci-
dentally plunged into the gorilla enclo-
sure at Britain’s Jersey Wildlife Zoo in
the Channel islands, the last thing hor-
rified onlookers expected him to do
was make a friend. Moments earlier,
the boy’s father had placed son Clint,
6, on top of the surrounding wall for a
better look at the gorillas. Levan
scrambled onto the wall too, and be-
fore his parents could grab him, he lost
his balance and fell 20 feet to the con-
crete below. Knocked unconscious,
Levan lay still with tiny rivulets of blood
coming from his nose and mouth.
That’s when a 400—pound gorilla
called Jambo, whose name means
“greetings” in Swahili, came into the
picture. To keep the other six gorillas

from getting too close, Jambo “put his
big arm out and pushed them away,”
Levan’s mother Pauline reports. Jambo
then sat next to the boy, gently poking
him with a finger at one point. A few
minutes later, Levan opened his eyes,
saw Jambo and did what any 5-year—old
would do under the circumstances: He
screamed. The 25-year-old Western
Lowlands gorilla was unfazed. By this
time a zoo official had climbed over the
wall and managed to coax Jambo and
the others to move away. After his res-
cue, Levan was treated for a broken
arm and a mild concussion.

“it was typical of him specifically
rather than gorillas in general,” says
head keeper Richard Johnstone-Scott
of Jambo’s kindly act. “He was obvi-

EM

ously concerned. He was also saying
‘He’s mine.’ He was protecting the
child for himself.” Though the other
gorillas grumbled a bit, Johnstone—
Scott explains, Jambo is their leader
and “he doesn’t have to do an awful lot
for his group to take notice.” Adds
Pauline, “Jambo wasjust like a dad. He
wasjust lovely.”

Recently the Merritts left their home
in Sussex to pay a visit to Jambo, cour-
tesy of a London newspaper and the
200. His arm in a sling and protected
this time by three inches of glass, Le-
van chatted happily with Jambo. “I’m
not scared,” says Levan, who doesn’t
recall the incident. “Jambo loves
me. He looked after me, didn’t he?
Jambo is my friend.” El

Separated by a three-Inch pane of glass, Jambo and Levan enjoy a reunion several weeks after their August encounter.

 




NEWSWEEK - Oct. 20, 1986

. ,,.__._- _ 3 _
t " ¢ _

. - . 'r r

. a!

. ’_ .
—'u—'- ncd

fat?” .
GREG SM

Getting ready for a firestorm: A 'tree crusher’ paves the way for napalm in Texas

 

Napalming American Forests

 

Smokey the Bear gives and takes some heavy heat

 

elieve it or not, Smokey the Bear is
playing With napalm. The US. For-
est Service owns 70 “helitorches”—
modiﬁed ﬂame throwers hung from heli-
copters—and oﬂ‘icially says that it is just
using brand-name products like Sureﬁre
and Alumagel. But add those powders to
gasoline and you have a battletested gel
that can burn at 1,000 degrees or more.
Rangers have been dropping the ﬁery mix-
ture on thousands of acres since 1979, but
only recently have environmentalists put
the Forest Service on the defensive. “When
I hear napalm,” says David M. Bailey of the
Texas National Forests, “I see planes drop-
ping napalm or it coming out of tank noz-
zles and destroying forests. That’s not what
we’re doing. We’re dropping it from heli-
copters and burning very selectively.”
Controversy over napalm is only the lat-
est setback for the US. Forest Service.
Economists and environmentalists are
challenging the ﬁnancial and ecological
costs of USFS policies, even as the Reagan
administration, in search of revenue, is
pushing to nearly double the sale of timber
from public lands. The Ofﬁce of Manage—
ment and Budget calculates that USFS pro-
grams to cut down trees and sell them lost
$577 million last year. A larger harvest will
take more money—and napalm. "We don’t
think the taxpayer ought to be subsidizing
the destruction of the environment,” says
. Richard Rice of the Wilderness Society.
Slash and burn: The USFS manages 191
million acres of forest, with about half its
territory open to logging; the remainder is
grassland or protected wilderness. All the
forests get plenty of recreational use: more
Americans visit USFS lands than national
parks. But part of the agency’s mandate is
to harvest trees and replant for future gen-
erations, and that entails farming 300,000
acres every year, sometimes clear-cutting

 

the timber and selling it, sometimes smash-
ing it down with heavy "tree crusher” ma-
chinery that can ﬂatten 30 acres of trees a
day. That done, rangers often use a cheap
stream of ﬂaming napalm (at $7 an acre) or
gasoline, in prescribed areas, to burn off
trees, stumps and undergrowth in a process
that inevitably kills wildlife. In this way
the land is readied for a tree plantation. In
east Texas, USFS plans to begin using na-
palm later this month on 2,600 acres of
hardwood and pine in the Sam Houston
National Forest have enraged some local
citizens. “The protector of the forests is
burning them,” says George Russell of the
Sierra Club’s Lone Star chapter. "Smokey
the Bear has become schizophrenic.”
Rangers argue that the clear-cut-and-na-
palm strategy is not unlike a natural forest
ﬁre. “We’re just helping Mother Nature,”
says USFS tree specialist Jay Strand.
“We’ll keep the trees thinned out so they
won’t be in intense competition with each
other. That. wiil keep the stress level
down.” But the stress level of environmen-
talists rises at such talk. They insist that
the USFS, by taking out as many as 50
species of trees and planting one or two, is
violating the 1976 National Forest Man—
agement Act, which requires the agency to
maintain a given area’s variety of species.
"The Forest Service is, en masse, destroy-
ing the natural diversity,” says Ned Fritz of
the Texas Committee on Natural Re-
sources. The USFS says its critics ignore
vast forests with a variety of species and see
only pockets of harvested trees. “We look at
diversity on a forest-by-forest basis, not'
acre by acre,” says Dick Shaffer, a USFS
reforestation expert. Acre by acre or forest
by forest, the dispute promises to be as hot
as a helitorch for some time to come. -

MARK D. UEHLING with DANIEL Snspmo
in Houston and BOB COHN in Washington

 




ATLANTA JOURNAL/CONSTITUTION - 10/26/86

Dog saves newborn,

woman says she

h

, Knight Ridder Newspapers

DETROIT - SomeWhere .on
the far west side of Detroit,a
stray German shepherd roams the

 

streets -— oblivious to the fact that ,
‘rit saved the‘ life of a newborn '

baby
The infant wes abandoned in a
weed-choked, bottle-strewn alley in

Goedegree weather, and his term ‘

peratnre' had plunged dangerously
low. But Baby Boy John Doe is
alive because the dog curled iwelf
around the bloody newborn until he

was rescued by startled Detroit po- '
juststopped,” said

lice officers.
,“My heart

Officer Joseph Dabliz, who at first

thought the dog was wounded be-

cause it was spotted with blood. “It - ~’ .
the Sinai Hospital emergency room '

- about 2: 30 p. m. Thursday suffering
from hypothermia,- hospital s kesg
Fri- '

was curled around a baby that was
holding onto a little twig. And the
baby was being licked by the dog. ”

The bizarre race to save the "

baby’s life “began at 10: 46 a. m
Thursday as 20-year-old Greta Da-

vis, who was bleeding heavily, ar-—.
rived at, the emergency room of Sis I

nai HOSpital in northwest Detroit.

About three hours later, DablizT

and his partner, Officer Timothy

Bannon, were dispatched to the'

hospital. Doctors had called police

to inform. them they were treating

a woman who had just given birth.
“But. there was no baby,” said
Bannon. He said he and Dabliz
questioned Ms. Davis, who insisted
she had not been pregnant.
Bannon and Dabliz went to the

woman’s home and questioned her '

mother, with whom she lived.
“She said she didn’t think her

 

ldnt

3(-

she was pregnant

v {laughter was pregnant, ” said Dab-

While Dabliz intervieWed the

. woman’ 3 mother, Bannon said he:
“went to the back (if the house, ‘
looked out a window, and saw a
blood trail running from the back »

perch to the fence "

Dabliz vaulted the fence, -
' jumped into high weeds, and saw, ‘

what at first appeared to be a

wounded German shepherd curled

up in overgrown vines. 1

Dabliz said the do: became
frightened and ran off when he
yelled “My God, Timmy, there’s a

baby out here! Get me a blanket! ‘
Get me a towel! Get 'me some-7'
.. th1ng'”

Baby Boy John Doe arrived at

woman Suzanne Timma sai
day.

The infant, who weighs 6

pounds, 4 ounCes, appears to be
full term, police were told. He is "

“very alert and very stable” in the

hospital’s neonatal intensiVe care

unit, Ms. Timma said. .
Contacted in her roam at the

hospital, Ms. Davis said she did not '

realize she was pregnant. '

“I must have passed out," she
said. “I had gone outside, and I
must have passed out.” She said
she had seen the baby in the hospi-
tal, and added, “I’m going to keep
him.”

But state welfare officials took
action Friday to get permanent
custody of the infant.

 

Assgld pue A1193

i
i
i
|
|
i
i
1
|
l
g
5
i
i
|
!
i
i
i
l
I
i
g
l
I
E
1
E
I
i

(5-daq

 

Ewi'wa ' away: a a
§ses5es§%§§§s§aag§§§g§§s
mama gg cm 5?” pagan.” .11
Egg-ssegmésgessgggagsgsa
maussgzaseseesﬁbstisibss
”sesggeagsbsgeesasggesea
:ln: s "'0 mu: '*
Eosgses gg§~~aggs gas 8;
sma'ﬁ asseseﬁsmaggga° Es
agg§§§g gm'g'éggo‘ég .933 - =3”
eesm=w§§§§3333§§22s§ 33%
getaway“ - g: "“ a .9533
1%:ugggg:ggé-ggmggégﬁsggg
assaeﬁsaseiuxsseeaasgase

    

.. -' .......................

 

Bumloaaulo

989m. Hamil 1.118! ml £88m. -

l

'5; 13d 1191013 JaaoadV 09 31311440 A’ ddnH

\

ssaywnummnamv

 

986T ‘9Z '130 - Sal/NIH. SEYTEL‘JNV SUI

 




— that’s CLEVELAND

$6 million policy m
locks out bear

like gold

DEALER

Oct. 16, 1986

By JANE KAHOUN
STAFF WRITER

*“Ceasar the bear, who recently got a
cold reception from his neighbors in
Brunswick Hills Township, now is an
unwelcome overnight visitor in
Parma.

The YOU-pound North American
black bear, who has made a name for
himself as Santa bear, Easter bunny
bear, wrestler, and all-around lovable
entertainer, got some unwanted atten-
tion over the weekend when he
decided to spend the night’in Parma.

The results were complaints from
residents, a couple of misdemeanor
citations for his host and more head-
aches for his owner. Sam Mazzola,
who met with city officials yesterday
to try to straighten things out.

The bottom line for Ceasar is that
he can come and go as he pleases, but
can’t spend the night in Parma unless
Mazzola comes up with a $6 million
insurance policy.

“I’m kind of tired of it,” Mazzola
said yesterday after the meeting.
Mazzola said Ceasar — whose upcom-

sr. ~1 9:"? r'jf . '\?1 2}.“ 5.5,..." . .\ ‘
Lug lChui‘: .m'x‘ﬂléfi cm <.—.Z.L§:‘..Lx:t;~d§r£€ a»; the

 

f,
for Ceasar, who has never worn a
muzzie and '* hart anyose. He
complained that pet shops and ani-
mals at the city’s Stearns Farm were
not subject to the same kind of
enforcement.

But councilmen said they had
received complaints from residents
who were afraid of having a bear in
their neighborhood.

 

“I don’t want that bear housed in

because, “he just bounces in
--;.- ﬁx ‘ ' ‘ «mum.

Cleveland Browns’ new video, a movie
being filmed in Canada and a wres-
tling match with two of the strongest
men in the world — isn’t deserving of
such treatment.

“He makes everybody happy; he’s
an entertainer,” Mazzola said.

Last weekend Wasn’t the first time
Mazzola and Parry-t officials have
clashed over Ceasar, who Mazzola
said is really just a softie who would
rather kiss peOple than claw them.

Mazzola said he applied last year
for a permit to keep Ceasar in Parma,
where he was living at the time. But
by the time he got an answer, council
had passed legislation requiring
owners to have $6 million in liability
insurance to keep animals like bears
in their homes.

Later, Mazzola moved to a condo-
minium in Brunswick Hills. where his
neighbors complained about. Ceasar,
prompting township trustees to adopt
a resolution prohibiting exotic ani-
mals.

But Mazzola contends neither com-
munity’s rules apply to Ceasar

9‘
o“?
“a;

and his permanent home is elsewhere.

“I’ll never disclose where his romp«
ing grounds are,” Mazzola said. “He
has about 10 acres.”

Trouble was, instead of keeping him
at his rural refuge, Mazzola left Cea-
sar in his trailer at a friend’s house at
about 4 am. Saturday to catch some
rest befe: = 2.: brother’s wedding.

“He wasn’t there for more than
eight hours,” said Mazzola, whose
friend soon was looking at a citation
from Parma police. Mazzola said he
took Ceasar home, but brought the
trailer back to Parma for his friend to
repair. Police issued another citation,
apparently thinking Ceasar was still
there, he said.

After a frustrating weekend, Maz-
zola showed up Tuesday night at a
council committee meeting to make
his opinions known.

“I cannot come up with $6 million
worth of liability,” Mazzola told coun-
cilmen. “It’s like asking me to go get a
rock from Mars.”

Mazzola said he had $1 million in
insurance and seven federal licenses

sea eeaexse

. ...
, ,. (V1;-

‘;1:;2g§:*°2-.§.’5.>-.- . ‘7 Jet/,3. f' L

Parma,” said Councilman Timothy G.
Dobec'k.

The solution to the problem might
cc" nexi :2" when Mazzola plans . ,
to 3* as: animal studio in Pam-ta. . .
Keeping the bear in a commercial
area might go over a lot better with
city officials.

In the meantime, Law Director
Andrew M. Boyko said the city would
continue to enforce its ordinance.

“That would permit him to have the
bear in transit only,” 30ka said.

Sam Mazzola pets Ceasar, his TOO-pound North American black bear.

 

 




CLEVELAND PLAIN DEALER - 10/10/86

Whaling dispute
chills Iceland,
U.S. relations

LOS ANGELES TIMES

‘ REYKJAVIK, Iceland — Icelanders
showed President Reagan their tradi-
tional quiet hospitality when he
arrived last night, but in doing so they
had to stifle their festering anger at
the United States. '

Their anger, stemming mostly from
a feeling that the U.S. government is
bullying them about whale killing, is
so intense that polls show a serious
erosion of Icelandic support for the
U.S.-run North Atlantic Treaty Orga-
nization base at Keflavik on the west-
ern tip of the island.

Despite this, Icelandic officials
insist that they will not raise the issue
or any other bilateral problem when
they meet with Reagan today, a day
before the start of presummit with
Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev.

“There is no way around it,” said
Helgi Agustsson, who was called back
from his post as deputy ambassador in
Washington to serve as spokesman for
the Icelandic government during the
conference. “There are bad feelings
now about relations with the United
States. But we are not going to raise
such issues at all when we meet Presi—
dent Reagan.”

The trouble arose from Iceland’s
killing of 120 whales this year despite
its agreement to abide by a morato-
rium on whaling by the International
Whaling Commission. Iceland said it
had killed the whales for scientific
research — an acceptable reason
under the commission’s rules.

The research was denounced as a
subterfuge by the Greenpeace
environmental organization. While the
U.S. government did not dispute the
validity of the research, it balked
instead at the Icelandic government‘s
intention to sell 95% of the whale
meat from the experiments to Japan
as food.

The U.S. Department of Commerce
said such sales would violate interna-

 

tional whaling regulations. Under U.S.
law, the department warned, the
United States could be forced to
impose sanctions and limit fish
imports from any country that via
lates the international regulations.
Since the United States is Iceland’s
main customer for fish, the threat
struck Icelanders as fearful and impe-
rious.

Prime Minister Steingrimur Her-
mannsson described the threat as an
“intolerable interference in Iceland’s
internal affairs.” The angry minister
of fisheries, Halldor Asgrimsson, said,
“We don’t go around threatening the
U.S.A. for the way they shore up dicta-
torships and implement capital pun-
ishment.”

A compromise was worked out,
with Iceland agreeing to sell only 49%
of the whale meat to Japan and the
Department of Commerce withdraw-
ing its threat. But Icelanders are furi-
ous about the compromise, which they
accepted under what they regard as
unfair pressure.

In August, when feelings seemed to
be at their height, newspaper polls
showed that the whaling issue was
weakening support for the Keflavik
base. One poll reported that more
than 60% of those polled felt that the
Icelandic defense agreement should
be reviewed in light of the U.S. posi-
tion on whaling.

. Icelanders have long been troubled
by so many foreigners in their midst,
even though most Americans stay
close to the base. Dependents swell
the U.S. military community to 5,000
in a land of only 240,000 peeple.

“We have fought for our indepen-
dence for centuries,” Agustsson said.
“There has always been a reluctance
to have a foreign base on Icelandic
soil. Think of the problem in the
United States of having 5 million Ice-
landers in a base near Washington.”
The pr0portion would be the same.

 

 

I

lion’s den

Couple really do reside in

1y, is a fairly

h wild ani-

Hoctor sa

Indiana. surprising

ood area to raise SUC

mals,

‘g

ana

l farmland in central Indi

near Terre Haute.

more like the African bush than

rura

. Hoctor and his wife also publish

The Animal Finders’ Guide 18
times a year, a nationally distrib-

uted publication where exotic

 

By JOYCE A. VENEZIA

P

on’s den — literally.

s.
faces that Wollld be

“There are p

. Brush-tailed porcupines bristle
1n suspncron at strangers. Toucans

screech a questionable welcome.

RAIRIE CREEK, Ind. (AP)

THE HOUSTON POST
October 20, 1986

me of them, bu
you get more

a little better for so

breeders can sell their animals to

collectors and zoos.

— Pat Hoctor and his wife,

Sharon, are living in a li-

“Most zoos are living museums

—- they don’t want babies,” be

though.” he addS- “We
be ice out of water
male is going to
we have to get her
my lion den

hip t
bedroom is
for a while each winter.

ails, or if a fe

“Winters create tremendous
her baby,

as you get warmer, ..
disease and insects, he says.

problems,
have to c
P

drop
inside. My

as wel-
hat

nimals here,

Hoctor says, but 1i-
ture and haul every spe-

The public at one time w
“We raise certain a

but I cap

ability insurance rates make t
cies" for

Squirrel monkeys scream and a ti-
impossible now.

ger growls.

come to visit,

Hoctor’s yard has proven to be a

have all these people staring at
successful breeding ground. The
stars of his collection are three

said. “It’s not a good breeding en-
them all the time.”

vironment because the animals

When their house burned down
last winter, the couple took tempo-
rary‘ refuge in a building next door

But with young cougar cubs in
the makeshift living room, bobcat
babies on the way and new exotics
arriving almost daily, rebuilding

normally used for raising their
newborn exotic animals.

rivate owners who have

hundreds of acres of animals such

P

ligers —— a hybrid breed of his lion
and tiger. Hoctor says there are
few other ligers in the world.

their house has taken second prior-

ity.

1e wild ani-
d and re-

The ability to hand
mals is mostly learne

as elk, deer or buffalo that must be

relocated, he says.

Hoctor says he is one of about

200 active dealers in the United
States who make a living from
breeding and trading wild ani-

rn o lo

to not stop

f danger, Hoctor says.

uires an inbred ability

(I

Wandering around Hoctor’s
property, one takes in a scene

in the face 0

 




 

Frozen dogs, abused
horses discovered at
‘horror movie’ farm

The animals’ owner was charged with
animal abuse, the fifth time she has faced
such charges since . 1974.

JACKSONVILLE (AP) — Po-
lice investigating reports that a
woman was abusing horses made
the macabre discovery of 30 to 40
dead dogs in two freezers she
owned, a detective said Thursday.

“It was like something out of a
horror movie,” said Detective G.C.
Royal of the Jacksonville Sheriff’s
Office agriculture division.

Della Verne LaFaye of Jack-
sonville was arrested late Wednes-
day on charges of abusing four
horses she kept on land in far
northeast Jacksonville, said Royal.
It was the fifth time she had been
arrested since 1974 on animal-
abuse charges, and she was on
probation for a 1985 conviction
when arrested. .

“She’s just cold-hearted,” said
Royal.

The detective said he had re-
ceived a tip that some horses had
been abandoned on the property
‘ and when he arrived he found two
stallions, a mare and a colt that
had been abused.

The horses were being treated
Friday by a veterinarian at the
Sheriff's Office stables. Royal said
he didn’t think any would have to
be destroyed, but “it’s going to
take a long time for them to re-
cover.”

One horse was,in particularly
bad condition, he said.

“It was tied to a pine tree, no
shade, no grass. it was wearing a

tached underneath it to a rope.
When the horse would pull it, it
would cut into the top of its head,”
he said. i

“It had been tied so long the
leather had imbedded itself in the
horse’s scalp, and the scalp was
trying to grow over the leather."

He said the wound was about
the width of three fingers.

Another stallion was so thin
that its hip bones protruded about
nine inchesfrom its waist. A mare
was suffering from gangrene in an
untreated leg wound and a
9-month-old colt was severely un-
dernourished.

The land where the horses
were kept was almost barren,
“like a baseball field,” so the
horses had nothing to eat, he said.

“I wouldn’t put a human out there.”

The 30 to 40 frozen dogs were
found at her trailer, about half-
a-mile from the horse lot. The
freezers were in the front yard.

“Whether they were frozen to
death or not, we don’t know at this
time. It was hard to tell what kind
or how many day there were.
Some were stuffed in sacks, ” said
Royal. “We are performing autop-
sies on them now. ”

Royal said he didn’t know what
she was doing with the frozen ani~
mals.

The five horses, along with 12

Doberman pinschers found at her.

home were impounded, said
Royal

AP photo

Della Verne LaFaye, 42, enters county court in Jacksonville
Thursday morning to be arraigned on charges of animal

cruelty.

LaFaye was arrested in 1974
on charges of mistreating 55 dogs
in her care. She was arrested on

,similar charges in 1979,1980 and

1985.

She was convicted in 1985 after

her last arrest and was on a one-

‘year probation when she was ar-

rested Wednesday night. The
conditions of her probation in-
cluded mandatory psychiatric
treatment and not owning any ani-
mals, said Royal.

 

 

 

9861 ‘01 19(10130 - ENHHIHL VdJWL

 




/
66 / The Houston Post/ Sun October 19,1986

Animals live In high tech world, too

By BILL LOHMANN
United Press International

Fleas, toddlers and silly own-
ers are tough enough on
~ pets, but a dog’s life has
gotten considerably more compli-
cated in the age of electronics.

Animals are clearly amazed —
but not necessarily in the same
way as their human counterparts
— by electronic wizardry.

As Morris the Cat muttered
when his excited master kept pes-
tering him with a new toy from the
pet shop, “Why don’t you go play
with it outside?”

Forget the old chestnut about
the poodle in the microwave.
Think for a minute about how
high-tech home gadgets -— vacuum
cleaners, VCRs and anything else
that beeps, ﬂashes or hums —-
have infiltrated the miniature
world of the house pet.

A boxer named Credo, who lives
in Sacramento, Calif., loves to an-
swer the telephone. In Credo’s
case, answering the phone in-
volves racing frantically toward
the source of the ringing, knocking
. the receiver off the hook and then
looking quite pleased with himself.

Juno, a Los Angeles cat, regu-
larly wages guerilla warfare on
her owner’s vacuum cleaner.
Ralph, an Atlanta parakeet, rou-
tinely tries to outsquawk the tele-
vision.

One California dogas .med Ruby
is truly a modern Pavia; rian pet.
Whenever the microwave goes
“Ding,” Ruby goes wild at the im-
pending prospect of dinner.

Computers are a new fascina-
tion for curious pets. Birds chirp
right along with the printers, while
cats view monitors and keyboards
as neat new mountains to climb.

As for dogs, well, the classic ex-
cuse, “My dog ate my home-
work," gains a good deal of cre-
dence when Spot starts chomping

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on a biscuit-size computer disc.

But not all pet encounters with
technology are humorous. Some
are downright uncomfortable.

Take smoke alarms. Some mod-
els are designed to alert owners
when the batteries are getting
weak by emitting constant high-
pitched beeps.

“If one of those things goes off
in the morning and beeps all day,
that becomes a real problem for
latch-key dogs or cats,” said Guy
Hodge, director of information for
the Humane Society of the United
States. “It can cause physical and
mental problems for the animal.

“That beeping bothers people,
but just imagine what it’s like for
some creature whose hearing is
more acute than yours."

Some animals cannot even eat
in peace. Pet dishes usually are

kept in the kitchen or utility room

— near the dishwasher, the gar-
bage disposal, the washing ma-
chine and dryer. Talk about indi-
gestion.

While noise is a nuisance, elec-
trical shock can be fatal for play-
ful pets. As more appliances are
plugged into more low-lying out-
lets, the danger is at an all-time
high.

“It’s not so much the equipment
itself as the electrical connec-
tions,” said Kathy Bauck, a
spokeswoman for the Humane So-
ciety. “Puppies and kittens will
chew through electrical cords and .
urinate on sockets. Those kinds of
things can cause death.

Pets also are victimized by elec-
tronic equipment aimed at their
own kind.

People wanting to rid their
home of insects and mice are using
ultrasounddevices which emit

high-frequency signals that sup-
posedly drive away intruders. So-
called sonar ﬂea collars are based
on the same theory.

' Questions about how well, the
collars work have prompted the
Federal Trade Commission to
open an investigation. There also
is growing concern over how these
devices may affect keen-eared
pets.

“We’ve heard from pet owners
who noticed behavioral changes in
their dogs and cats . . . after they
started to use these products,”
Hodge said. “There’s at least a po-
tential for dogs or cats to hear .
these ultrasounds, but it would de-
pend on the frequency and decibel
leve. ”

Shock colla1 s, which give off
slight shocks to signal inappropri-
ate behavior, may also pose a dan-
ger to pets. In the hands of ex-
perts, these cellars can be useful
instruments to train dogs for spe~
cialized missians. In the hands of
novices using them for the wrong
reasons, they can be instruments
of torture.

Several years ago, a manufac-
turer announced a major recall of
one model after discovering that
the collar’s shocks were severe
enough to leave burns an animal’s
neck.

Shock collars can be triggered
in several ways. Some models
work by remote control, while oth-
ers are automatically activated by
various stimuli. If a dog wearing a
sound-sensitive shock collar
barks, it gets zapped.

“First of all, sometimes it’ 8 ap-
propriate for a dog to bark, ”
Hodge said. “A dog barks when
it’s in distress. It’s their way of
calling for help. What if a dog is
hurt and in pain? With every bark,
it receives another shock.

“People think of (shock collars)
as providing short-cuts to training
their dogs. What you’re doing is
training your dog to fear you.”

 

 

 

 

 




THE BOSTON GLOBE - Oct. 21, 1986

Canada goose htmi begins at Crystal Lake

Animal rights group ponders role after member surrenders bird to hunter

:By Gloria Negri
Globe Staff

' GARDNER — Despite the protests of
animal rights activists. the open season
on Canada geese living on the Crystal
Lake reservoir began as scheduled yes-
terday, with one of the ﬂock of 10:3 re-
ported baggedby a hunter. . »

Sara Romer, spokeswoman for the
Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals, said an
MSPCA staff member tried to rescue- the
goose after it was injured but was is... d
by a state environmental warden to turn
the bird over to the hunter.

 

th a black
nd a white
-lunk.

pale breast a

their deep -

“ka-runk. ka
3
nibCrS"about four

big birds wi
people like

Residents say the
along the lake in small nu

The geese are

head and neck, a
ywrs ago and their numbers increased

musical honking —
each year.

chin strap. Some

U

dorn, who lives across the

Vicki Hei

.‘.'

street from the lake, said she wasn‘t happy
with the geese droppings, but that she was
“I'm going to keep my three kids home for’
the duration." she said. She said she was
“afraid the hunters will stay in the woods
and thergewe will come into the neighbor-

hoods.”

more concerned about the hunters than

with the water quality.

Romcr said the agency was ”reeVa—
luating” the situation with its legal

counsel to determine whether. should a «

similar situation arise, they would have
to surrender an injured bird.

“We understood it was our legal obiie

gation to do so. We weren’t sure what
our position vis-a-vis the game warden
was.” Romer said. She said she did not
know what the hunter did with the
goose. “These geese are tame," Romer
said. “It’s like shooting birds in a bird

7 feeder in your yard.”

Only'three hunters showed up at

dawn to hunt the geese, but there may

_, “in w, . 7W _ _ . . ..
. ..‘4\- .fo'ﬁ ~ .‘ R ,u -; ”MW“...

for 20 years,
. but didn’t
I over

Hunters are not allowed to shoot within
Wirkkala, who has lived a

500 feet of a building and within 150 feet of

a paved road.

Heidorn was also worried that hunters

would use lead bullets that would fall into
the lake and leach into the water supply.

Dorothy
stone’s throw from the lake

these birds have been fed by people. .Their

nests should have been destroyed earlier,
but, now. I don't see that Mr.-Ares has any

wild geese. they would have a choice, but
alternative," she said.

them instead of shoot them. If they were

like them taking the swimming poo
. from the children. “We wish we could net

said most people loved the geese

GEESE, .Page 25

have been others not seen by the
MSPCA, Romer said. A handful of geese
were reported to have paddled peacefully
to the center of the lake out of range of
the hunters. Hunting~ is allowed between
6:30 am. and 7 pm.

A number of MSPCA staff members
were on- the shore and severalywere in a
boat on the lake. Romer said Paul Le—
francois was in the boat and went to the
rescue of the injured bird but gave it up
at the request of Lt. Daniel C. Lemerise. a
warden with the state Division Of Fisher—
ies and Wildlife.

....-.----~" ‘ "‘

- -

Gardner officials have ap—
lroyed the hunting of the geese be—
M'cause they are concerned that the
" ﬁfese will pollute Crystal Lake, the
f .‘aih source of Gardner’s drink-
”"119 g 'wa ter. '
' Gardner Health Agent Joseph
viii! .Ares said the geese drOp one
( pound of fecal matter per bird per
‘week. ”While the reservoir hasn't
.shpwn signs of contamination so
1gfar.I the open season is designed to
.4 prgyent it," Ares said.

.1;';a“‘l‘.he geese also have sullied the
;. grass at the Gardner Municipal

Golf Course and at Mount Wachu--

sett Community College. seeming

to favor a daily itinerary that an—
gles from the lake to the golf

' course and college.

The geese have been coming to.
the reservoir for four years, start-
ing with about seven and increas—
ing to their present numbers.
They have been a popular attrac-
tion for Gardner children and col—
lege students. who have been feed-
ing them bread and crumbs.

The geese have become so tame
that they have built nests along
the lake shore and birthed "their
goslings there. '

Romer said MSPCA representa-
tives will continue to monitor the
hunt. which is scheduled to last
anotim" 10 days.’A' second open
season is scheduled in November.

 

 

 




THE BOSTON GLOBE - October 18, 1986

# Open season on geese angers some

By Gloria Negri
Globe Staff

ARDNER — THE
CANADA GEESE
WHO HAVE
BEEN LIVING ON
GARDNER’S CRYSTAL
LAKE reservoir will be fair

game for hunters when the

season opens Monday. but the Massachu—
setts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals is making a last-minute appeal
for a reprieve.

In a strongly—worded letter sent ”yester-
day to Gardner city officials, Walter Kilroy.
executive vice president of the SPCA, called
the hunt “completely unnecessary, unethi—
cal and immoral."

City officials want to get rid of the 105
geese because they fear they are polluting
the public water supply. Crystal Lake, 400
acres and a mile long, is the city’s main
source of drinking water.

“You can figure on one pound of fecal
matter per bird per week. For 105 birds,
that amounts to 2,000 pounds in five
months." said Gardner Health Agent Jo-
seph N. Ares.

Starting Monday and lasting for 12
days. Gardner officials are going to allow
hunters into the reservoir area for the first
time to shoot the geese and scare away the
ones they miss. '

Department of Public Works Director
John W. Meany, under whose jurisdiction
the Crystal Lake reservoir falls, has en-
dorsed the sport—hunting of migratory wa-
terfowl at the reservoir ”during the normal
hunting season . . . providing it is done in
conformance with all state and federal
laws and regulations." Hunters are limited
to three geese each. ‘

The problem of the geese has not been
limited to the reservoir. Regulars at the
Gardner Municipal Golf Course say the
11th hole, on an inlet of Crystal Lake, is
almost impossible to play because the geese
have been using it as their own private
privy.

“T hose geese have made the fairways
like a field that’s been manured It’s
pretty slippery underfoot," said golfer Stan
Smith of Gardner, who has been playing
the course since 1936.

Jim LeBlanc, the assistant golf pro, said
the goose droppings have gotten so bad
that “when our guys mow the grass they
have to wear raincoats and hoods and get
splattered in the face."

’ “A lot of people are concerned. I've been
bringing my own drinking water for two
years now,” said golfer Lorrie Glovins.
“Walking is one thing. but picking up the
ball is worse.” Peg Miller added.

 

‘The Canada geese in Gardner are . . .

have been dependent,
dents for food.’

The geese have also sullied the grass
around a municipal swimming pool abut—
ting Crystal Lake and the grounds of Mt.
Wachusett Community College, across the
road from the golf course. They like the
clippings from the well—kept lawns at the
college and golf course and the grubs they
find in them.

Attempts to get rid of the birds have
failed. The posting of $50 fine for feeding
the geese hasn’t worked. Nor has an at—
tempt to scare the geese off with firecrack—
ers.

Kilroy said the SPCA has offered to as-
sist Gardner officials in exploring non-le-
thal, humane alternatives to the hunt, but
said city officials have so far declined. He

 

par—

tially domesticated urban inhabitants who
in part, on city resi-

— Walter Kilroy of SPCA

said his agency has received calls from a
number of Gardner residents who oppose
the hunt.

“The Canada geese in Gardner are not
typically wild geese. Rather. they are par—
tially domesticated urban inhabitants who
have been dependent, in part, on city resi—
dents for food," Kilroy said.

Gardner children have been feeding
them for years. Jennifer Janes, 20, who
works in a service station and remembers
feeding the geese when she was younger.
said: “These geese should be able to live
wherever they want.” She remembered
that the city once tried to scare ducks off

‘ the lake with fake swans, but that the

geesearen’t afraid of swans.

. w. , .M.

Globe staff photo/Jim Wilson

A Couple of the 105 Canada geese at Gardner’s Crystal Lake
reserv01r that have city officials and the SPCA at odds.

 




THE TAMPA TRIBUNE - October 26, 1986

 

 

 

The other side:
Behind scenes of
animal research

A lot of well-meaning folks routinely refer to
these people as monsters, uncaring sadists, and
worse. Sometimes it’s murderers.

Meet the monsters:

Dr. Elise Gomez-Sanchez, 37, is a frenetic
wisp of a woman for whom days were designed
with too few working hours. She is a respected
veterinarian and a college professor with a Ph.D.,
articulate, much-published, with impeccable
credentials. She also is the wife of a doctor, Celso,
and the mother of two children, Daniel, 7, and
Miriam, 3. They live in northern Hillsborough
County on five acres they share with a boarding
horse, three dogs, four sheep with Spanish
names, four gerbils, a housebroken guinea pig
and a snapping turtle.

Dr. James Sherman, 40, is a pediatrician
specializing in cystic fibrosis, the cruel disease
that requires parents to quite literally beat their
children daily with cupped hands to dislodge the
mucus that otherwise builds up in their lungs and
suffocates them. Kids with CF rarely make it to
their mid-20$. He and his wifevhave five children
and a Staffordshire terrier.

Madonna Turlich, at 30, is a widow. Her
husband, Dr. John Turlich, a young cancer
specialist, died 17 months ago, of lymphoma, a
virulent form of cancer they had reason to think
had gone into permanent remission. Today she
works hard trying to raise money for a memorial
research fund in his name at USF when she isn’t
working as a receptionist for Barnett Bank to
support their young son. They have a little mixed
breed dog, Lady, they adopted from the county
animal shelter the day John Turlich died.

Nancy Ford, 59, is director of public affairs
for USF’s medical center. She’s a native Tampan
with a mane of silver-gray hair, a strong voice
with a honey-rich southern accent and even
stronger opinions. She is the wife of a prominent
plumbing contractor, the mother of two grown
daughters, a grandmother and the owner of two
dogs, two cats, four birds in the house and 60
more in an aviary outdoors.

All of these folks have two things in common.

Each of them is involved in some way with
medical research performed on animals at the
University of South Florida Medical Center, some
of which uses dogs and cats donated by the
county animal shelter when they are not claimed
by owners or adopted.

And each of them is angry and tired —— very,
very tired — of being called a monster.

 

 

 

06¢

The day I spoke with Nancy Ford, the first
line of defense when “animal rights actmsts”
telephone, she had received a newspaper
clipping in the mail from Daytona Beach.
Scrawled across the top was added: “YOU TOO
are destined to die — why not use YOU for

research????”

“They call me a murderer, say we’re all
barbarians and worse, they tell me I’m only
defending what we do here because they pay me
to...” and the drawl becomes almost a growl.

“That is just not so. I had cancer in 1972
and I know I’m alive today because of the

surgical techniques, the two types of radiation ,
they treated me with, were developed usmg

9’

research animals...

t

Then she dutifully provides lists of the
hundreds of diseases cured — human and animal
-— and procedures first developed through-the
use of animals in research, and letters endorsmg
USF’s research program from virtually every
major local and state disease-fighting charity, all

the medical and veterinary societies.

“But we’re being wrongly accused of doing all
. sorts of things, and I have to keep saying ‘We
don’t do that, no, we don’t do that either It’s
wearing us out. All of us have other jobs. And
we’re getting pretty tired of being called

monsters

I got a tour, unannounced, through most of the 3
Medical Center and veteran’s hospital research
facilities. I saw the labs. In one fully equipped
operating room, I saw an anesthetized cat
undergoing delicate microsurgical procedures
beneath a pair of binocular microscopes by a

surgical resident, under the tutelage of a surgeon i

l

experienced in the reattachment of limbs. When
the session was over, the cat was overdosed on \

anesthesia.

There are no sadistic contrap-
tions permanently impaling or
shackling any animals there. Some
animals have heart catheters per-
manently implanted by surgeons to
make injections unnecessary, but
the animals appear in no discomfort.
‘ I saw wards of lab animals.
There are lots and lots of rats (90
percent of all animals) and rabbits
and a couple of sheep, most of which
are undergoing long-term observa-
tion for the treatment of hereditary
and induced human-like conditions.
“The place is clean, the animals are
fat and well cared-for, the attend-
ants, technicians and attending vet-
erinarian — not Gomez-Sanchez —
all consider themselves “animal
lovers.” .

(A lO—member committee over-
sees all proposed and ongoing ani-
mal research projects solely as to
how they provide for the care of the
animals invalved. It includes two lay
people. Its meetings are open to the
public. A national association moni-
tors the use of animals as well.)

I also saw rooms with cages full
of dogs and cats.

It is, of course, upsetting to see
dozens of tail-wagging dogs and
meowing cats you know are destined
for death. .

But last year Hillsborough Ani-
mal Control captured and im-
pounded 24,952 animals, almost all
dogs and cats. or those, 2,034 were
reclaimed by their owners; 1,193
were adopted by new owners.

The rest of the animals, 22,936 of

them, were kept for 7 days —— 14 if
there is any indication, like a collar,
that the animal has an owner — and
destroyed. Most died at the shelter
but 817 of them were destroyed at
USF Medical Center by an overdose
of the anesthetic used to keep them
unconscious during a surgical proce-
dure, for research of the 'develop-
ment of surgical skills.
Those 817, 3.5 percent of the un-
‘wanted dogs and cats Hillsborough
pet owners abandon or don’t care to
reclaim, or their wild offspring, are
what all the name-calling and pick-
eting to end “pound seizure” is
about.
Almost no one argues that the
county should maintain all those am-
mals until they die of oldage, but

 




there are a few. It is their use in
medical research that raises the
furor.

Research animals should be bred
for the purpose, some say. Others
say such research should end.

Dr. Gomez-Sanchez sees the con-
cept of a pet as a “human-invented
relationship,” not a fact of nature,
but one to which she has obviously
succumbed.

“Is an abandoned dog or cat is
that a pet? Does a shepherd, or ——
an Eskimo or even a hunter con-

sider his working dog a pet? I doubt

“But why do you think anyone
becomes a vet? Why do you think
anyone takes a job cleaning animal
cages? Because they love animals,”
she says, holding one of the rats she
uses to investigate the causes of hy-
pertension, the condition that causes
heart attacks, the number one killer

of Americans. She calls the rats her
“gentlemen.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dir. Elise Gomez-Sanchez is an
animal lover who defends
animal research.

And Gomez-Sanchez also works
with a program that places animals
— as pets -— in nursing homes, after
considerable training. M” a saris:
in quarantine. The day we talked,
she was giving shots to two very un-
cooperative cockatiels, Dirty Harry
and Hilda, destined to provide com-
panionship for lonely residents in
the VA nursing home.

A cat’s body, she explains, is a
good approximation of a newborn in-
fant’s, in terms of the size of organ
systems. A mature dog’s chest cavity

is analogous to a person’s in experi-
ments monitoring blood flow to the
heart and surgical procedures.

Dr. James Sherman uses quite a
few shelter cats in his studies of the
cells that produce mucus in the
chest.

He sedates them and removes
their windpipes to extract the cells
that produce mucus, and grows them
in a tissue culture. He is the first per-
son ever to have found a wax to do
that. He’s now able to keep them
alive for as long as two weeks.

His goal is a solid methodology
for isolating and culturing them so
they continue to reproduce.

“That will be my major contribu-
tion. Next, we hope a biochemist will
learn how to turn on or turn off
these cells (genetically) and 20
years from now it will make a big
difference or I may waste five
years of my life. That’s how re-
search works.

“Last week they discovered the
gene that causes the second most
virulent form of muscular dystrophy
(Duchenne, the most common form
of the fatal disease) Within a cou-
ple of years there should be (an ef-
fective treatment).

“One of the things I tell my pa-
tients is, that while we have no cure,
we hope to be able to control it and
that a cure will be found within their
lifetime If they stop animal re-
search, it won’t happen.”

While the controversy here is
about shelter dogs and cats, all na-
tional “animal rights” groups strive
for an end to ail animal research,
charging researchers with ‘species-
ism,” an arrogant human attitude
like racism and sexism.

Readies: is say, he researchers

.. ___,.....__......_._. .-m=mwmw-=m;. -- '- azxmmm

don’t buy it. Gomez-Sanchez even
cites Biblical theses that animals
were placed on earth to serve man.

Neither does Turlich buy the op
position.

“None of us likes the thought of
animals dying, especially animals
we think of as pets. We like to have
the results of research, the gain
without the pain. But life isn’t that
way.

“Since my husband died, they
have developed a (treatment) for
the form of lymphoma he died of

“My husband was 28 when he
die-5'. s set up his own (cancer) re-
search lab. He was a very talented
young man It was such a waste.
(By fighting to maintain the use of
shelter animals, and raising funds
for research), I’m trying to salvage
some of that waste — his life and the
lives he could have saved. If we
don’t look at this subject realistically

For her it’s an emotional issue.
She admits it.

“I’ve raised $6,000 so far. If I

have to use it to buy dogs for re-
search, I will. I don’t want a young
surgery resident doing his first gall

bladder surgery on me or my child;
better an anesthetized animal.”

Research breeders charge $400,
$500 and more for a dog raised to an
age suitable for research. USF Presi-
dent John Lott Brown estimates it
would cost the university —— read
‘taxpayers’ —- $250,000 a year to .re-
place shelter animals, for which
USF donates $5 per animal.

“This is important. But I also
want people to know we're not hOI'I'l-
ble people But I view these shelter
animals as a gift, from the people of
Hillsborough County to humanity.

Because of that gift, somebody’s
child is going to live.”

Lynn Goldie works for the coun—
ty’s animal control department. She
is no advocate of animal research,
but until she is convinced the ani-
mals are treated inhumanely, she
does not oppose it.

And she doesn’t like people can.
ing her shelter 3 “pound,” a term
she. said evolved decades ago when
abandoned animals were sold to
meat packers by the “pound.” And
when it is paired with “seizure,” she
is especially rankled.

“No one seizes these animals. We
give them to the university. They
specify sex and weight; we select the
animals.”

It’s not an easy job.

But she acknowledges most of
her animal residents are not pets.
“Is a dog a pet when it lives in the
sewer system when it lives in the
Wi‘h—LZET has never been. hand}
a. it‘s lived on the: streets aii :.
iiie eating out of trash cans?

“And what’s going to happer,”
she asks, “when they need animals
and we can't supply them. Isn‘t it
cheaper to just pick dogs off the
streets than feed puppies for six
months?”

And assuming there is no r .
search black market, and all Gig
come from breeders What then?"

Twice as many dogs or cats wit:
die.

And, yes, I have a pet. A car
named Mo. As a kitten she provided
companionship during my mother's
last months at home as she witheree
tram ALS, Len Leg, s:

Researchers think they’re closer
to a treatment now. Thank the doc.-
tors and a bunch of animals.

 




LOS ANGELES TIMES - October 22, 1986

Man's Impact Eased

Indonesians
Move to Save

Rare Wildlife

By NICK B. WILLIAMS Jr.,
Times Staff Writer

BOHOROK. Indonesia—The
boys laid out the food on a rough-
planked platform 20 feet above
ground amid the trees and vines,
reached by ladder from the jungle
floor. Then, higher still, branches
rattled and leaves shook. The
orangutans were coming.

This day there would be three for
the afternoon feeding at the Bohe-
rok Orangutan Rehabilitation Cenv
ter. They represented a small vic—
tory for the animals in the clash
between man and wildlife on the
big Indonesian island of Sumatra.

Two years ago, each of the three
had been a household pet. Having
one of the languid, lovable, red-
haired apes shambling around the
living room, or caged on the patio,

 

was a status symbol. Overlooked ‘

was the death of their mothers,
invariably killed by the poachers
who took the young for profit.

Now on a ridge just two hours

from the big port city of Medan, the
young orangutans were being j
weaned back to the wild, fed milk. 1

and bananas twice a day, then left
in the trees to fill out their diet with
natural forage.

It takes three or four years to
break their dependence on the
feedings, but it took environmen-
talists at least that long to convince
urban Indonesians that keeping
apes as pets represented depreda-
tion of a rare treasure, the Wildlife
of one of the world’s great rain
forests.

“It was already a few minutes
before midnight when we started,”
said Fred Hehuwat, a founder of
the Green Indonesia Foundation, a
private enVIronmental group
formed in the late 1970s to raise the
alarm on the threat to Indonesia’s
incredible plant and animal life.

Youth feeding an orangutan on a tree platform on Sumatra;

For some species, it is now past
midnight.

“Five, I think, just four or five,”
said Linus Simanjuntak, a fellow
founder, describing the population
of the Javan tiger on Indonesia’s
central and most populous island.
“At those numbers, it’s gone.”

The last Bali tiger was killed in
the early 19605. Simanjuntak esti-
mates the population of the Suma-
tran tiger at a thousand. If it is lost,
and some experts fear that possibil -
ity, the tiger will be gone from
Indonesia.

“The fauna is being flattened,”
said David Heckman, an American
living in Medan and developing
white-water rafting on a wild Su~
matran river.

Still, Indonesia, an archipelago of
13,677 volcanic islands nearly

SUMA TRA .

Indian

O 200 400
MILES

 

two-thirds covered by forest and
jungle, remains one of the world’s
few “factories” of wildlife, along
with equatorial Brazil and Zaire.
Heckman, who has worked in the
Brazilian rain forest, said he thinks
that Indonesia’s is “more exot-
ic, . . .more condensed.”

The world’s largest flower grows
here, a parasite named rafflesia,
whose bloom can measure more
than a yard in diameter and weigh
20 pounds. So does the world's
largest lizard, the famous monitor
of Komodo Island, a 10-footer.

In Kalimantan, the Indonesian
province on the island of Borneo.
there are more than 3,000 species of
trees. More than 500 mammals are
found in the islands, most of them
on mountainous Sumatra, the size
of California—tigers, elephants,
orangutans, gibbons.

And there may be species un-
known to scientists. Heckman, who
represents Sobek Expeditions of

INDONESIA , 1 , ,

South China.
Sea
BRUNEI . _ .

Jakarta
KOMODO ’

Ocean

LESSER SUNDA I'SLXNDS

0“ Banda Sea

Jav
Sea
N ISLAQID
. 0"!"
JA VA ’ '3'- ”."

J ‘

Timor
Sea 85%?

1

 

 

.Los Angeles Times ;

GERALDINE B.

J

the ape was once a household pet.

 




Angels Camp, Calif., related the
story of a New Zealander who sets
up automatic cameras in the jungle
to record the wildlife.

“He had one picture—I saw
it—of something that had the body
ofa mammal and the legs ofabir
Heckman said, shaking his head.
“It’s impossible,” he insisted, but he
could not explain the photo.

As elsewhere in the world, the
greatest danger to this abundance
of wildlife is man. Not man the
hunter, although he is probably
most responsible for reducing the
numbers of the Javan and Suma-
tran rhinoceroses to the point of
probable extinction. It is man the
farmer who poses the more certain
threat.

“The biggest danger is land hun-
ger,” Hehuwat, the incoming
chairman of Green Indonesia, said
at the foundation’s offices outside
Jakarta, Indonesia’s capital. He said
agricultural expansion is a far
greater threat to the forest and its
inhabitants than logging or mining,
two other forms of man’s incur-
sions.

Intruding on Animals

Specifically, environmentalists
mention the government’s
long-term program of transmigra-
tion, which was started before
World War II by the Dutch colo-
nialists to relieve the pressure on
overpopulated Java by transport-
ing people to the outer islands,
including Sumatra. The inescapa-
ble result is to intrude on the realm
of the wild animals.

Tribal Indonesians and other up-
country inhabitants have lived
successfully with the animals for
eons—“in harmony," says environ-
mentalist Simanjuntak, whose fam-
ily belongs to the Batait people of

northern Sumatra.
g ‘Now ttz'zs is true" fa: said at his.
home besrde the Jakarta zoo. “In
Batak country, if a durian (a
delicmus but revoltingly malodor-
ous fruit) falls on the forest floor
whticheverlfomes along first, man
or iger, wi eat half
for the other." and leave half
A transplanted Javanese farmer
usually does not share that mutual
respect, Sumatrans say. Further-
more, the land provided to trans—
migrants sometimes inadvertently
causes a clash. .
Farmland in the southern Suma-
tran province of Lampung. for
instance, has been develOped
across the trail of the elephant a
path he follows on a cyclical pat-
tern. Two months ago, a bull and
two females went on a rampage
through a village that lay in their
accustomed path. Press reports
said 14 homes were damaged and a
boy was killed.

. The Indonesian government has
imported trained elephants and
their mahouts from Thailand to

teach Indonesians how to domesti-
cate the Sumatran elephant The
rampaging elephants of Lampung
have been captured and sent to the
Thai training school.

The clash of man and beast in
Indonesia has been accentuated in
the last two years by the decline of

.oil prices. Petroleum is Indonesia’s
principal export earner. To make
up for the loss in oil incarnate
government has pressure“ »
ers for increased export or
and plywood, which incl miss ac-
tivity in the forests.

At the same time, a government
program to increase the size of
national parks, nature reserves and
protected forests, already more
than 6% of the land area, remains
on the books. But officials, even
environmentalists, say the un-
touched integrity of the rain forests
will have to give way to national
development projects.

Forestry Minister Soedjarwo, in

a recently published interview,
said that “full forest exploitation”
should benefit people both With

improved environment and jobs.
But he emphasized the economic
benefit, predicting that by the year
2000, Indonesia could make $4
billion a year from timber sales.

Emil Falim, minister of popula-
tion and environment, said Indone-
sia needs the revenue from its
logging industry but is equally
aware of the world’s desire to
protect the rain forests. “But who
can 52;: a price on genetic-22'?" he
said.

He suggested that the industrial-
ised. countries join Indonesia’ and
other developing countries that
have rain forests in. establishing a
trust fund to protect. then .

“Why should Indonesia do it
alone?" the minister asked.

Green Indonesia’s Hehuwat also
called for compromise.

“We’re not for putting the envi-
ronment behind glass,” he said.
“We cannot freeze it, but there are
limits and there are methods.
There should be interaction” be-
tween development planners and
environmentalists.

If not, he warned, Sumatra could
become another Java, its wildlife
largely depleted.

“I remember as a boy in East
Java, I could go into the forest and
see panthers and pythons,” said
Suryo Prawiroatmodjo, 29, a Green
Indonesia official. “Not now."

It is not the passage of man
through the forest that alters the
ecosystem. It is the changes that he
makes.

The change can be as simple as a
road. A road does not take that
much space, but it can sever the
range of a tiger, restricting its
movement and ultimately dimin-
ishing the tiger population.

Logging has a similar effect.
New trees and other vegetation
will grow, but never in the variety
of the rain forest. Animals that
lived in the original system may

at survive in the altered one.

Here at the Bohorok orangutan
center, the emphasis is on educa-
tion, on raising consciousness...
Sometimes it gee emotional

“Who gave us the right to kill off
the orangutan?" blurted Joost
Foppes, a Dutch worker for the
World Wildlife Fund, at the end of
a discussion of the problem.

Heckman, the rafter, was some-
times understated about his con-
cern for the wildlife.

“Causes are hard to come by,” he
noted dryly. “Maybe we can save a
few animals.”

Future Garden for Mankind

But he went on to describe a trip
down Sumatra’s Alas River: “All
along the banks . . . pig-tail ma-
caques, gibbons, hog-badgers,
dholes (wild dogs). . . . If we can
save it, that’s a garden for mankind
in the future.”

As the afternoon feeding neared
its end at the Bohorok center, a
great hornbill passed overhead, the
beating of its heavy wings sound-
ing like someone sawing a log.

Then another noise, a cracking
sound. One of the boys whispered
excitedly.

“He said one of the wild ones is
coming," a guide told three for»
signers who had climbed several
hmdred feet up the ridge to see the
feeding, picking their way through
slipipers."w orange monsoon mud, past
bamboo thickets, roots and vines.

The guide pointed. Twenty feet
away and 30‘ feet up, an adult
orangutan sat in the crotch of a tall
tree and watched the proceedings.
It was a male, about 140 pounds.
more than three times the size of
the young erstwhile pets at the
feeding platform, the guide esti-
mated.

After about 10 minutes, he
reached out a long arm for a limber
branch, held on with a hand and a
foot, and swung to the next tree. .
Then to another, moving remarka-
bly quickly. And free.

 




LOS ANGELES SUNDAY TIMES
Magazine - 10/19/86

was walking my dog one

Sunday when a frail, eld-
erly woman stopped me. Ex-
cept for white wisps of cot—
ton-candy hair, she was all in
pink: pink cheeks, pink
cloche with pink veil, pink
blouse with pink-lace collar,
pink jacket, pink skirt, pink
stockings, pink pumps, pink
purse. She looked like a bot
tle of Pepto-Bismol.

She slowly kneeled and
with a thin hand tenderly
stroked the dog‘s head.

“Oh, I just love animals,”
she said in a brittle voice,
“especially dogs. He‘s a Lab,
isn’t he? He’s beautiful.
What‘s his name?"

“Her name is Shadow,” I
replied.

She nodded. “Aren’t you a
pretty girl? My name is Doro-
thy,” she told either me or
Shadow. She looked up. “My
little dog just died,” she said
with a slight catch in her
voice. “Three years ago."

She sighed. “Blasted land-
lord won’t let me have a new
one. Why are they so mean?"

“It’s nOt all that simple,”
says landlord Tony Rt. ﬁnal":-
ta, who owns a number of
Southern California rental
properties. “Animals can be
terribly destructive. Where
there is high density—where
a lot of people are living
closely together—that could
mean an avtful lot of animals,
a lOt of noise, a lot of animal
waste. What about the rights
of tenants who may not like
animals? Where do all the
animals go to the bathroom?
Who picks it up when a ten-
ant is irresponsible? Lawns
and gardens can be ruined.
What about the noise ani-
mals make when working
people leave them alone at
home all day?

Pet Peeves

BY GARY KARASIK

3

 

Chuck Potter

“I wish it w e an easier issue," says one landlord.

“There are problems with
fleas,” he continues. “Three
weeks after the tenant with
the animal leaves, the flea
eggs hatch, and the new ten-
ant is suddenly infested. I
wish it were an easier issue."
Over the telephone, I hear
his dogs barking in the back-
ground.

Without question, the
noise pets make sometimes
disturbs other tenants. And
pets sometimes cost land-
lords money. “But that’s why
tenants pay cleaning depos-
its," says Eileen Foster, a ten-
ants’orights activist from Los
Angeles.

I know from experience

the damage that pets can do
to a place. I once moved into
an apartment where a couple
had raised a St. Bernard in a
bedroom that had wall-to
wall carpeting. It took two
weeks of scrubbing the walls
to get rid of the smell. The
floors had to be refinished.
We had to burn the carpet.
And I know that landlords
want to protect their invest-
ments and to make the larg-
est possible profits, but al-
lowances should be made. I
recently read an account of a
Los Angeles landlord who
forced an elderly tenant to
get rid of an old, blind dog.

Federally funded housing

 

w mauumdaa
S; 425va (£409

'qumg mung DH

qsyﬁug 3611 at 13.01193] 29

 

'ijutd 9111 u; Burma;

‘99s urza noA 9V” ‘ptrzs aqs

(4

C]

'sam pueqan Au]

sea tpnut stzm 9H,.
s aqs st: pins Auto

nu Aut will] 1,,

'SQAOJdtrii qijeaq

P, arnoA ‘sagn
1 eases Aueut ut pun smomuoa Amtuow

s amiaq lsnl ‘uaq 1, But
‘mou ‘Atzp A19A01 t2 mm
3 poms aqs 'moptzqs 01

1le ‘mm 9119 ..

pttzs Autoitoq “‘Aimzaq
ueql qnm 3A“ 01 Jet
'Jrza smoptzqg patptmo
-J()(] ,3ququ AJUQH a]

‘jjo palanm aq
n03” 'Aunjait

[UR jjasAtu 1

1th

(1 12918 9x12: slotuas

sq) isleurtue JO Aiath 2 mode tum] swat

9391.11 U101} amsea]

d

Alepos auraumH Buapesad aql

d
‘quBJBOJd qoeanno unfiaq aABq

dsou pun sap
mdopv
uttzn

‘SunoA 9x21 SJQQIUHIOA tjnpa pa

:w 99qu

dope aJouI maul BUDﬂZUJ
SunoA am 1qu
are swmﬁoxd tpns jo Slgatteq tin
(1 mm swam:
Auew ‘auqmueaw

11133} uazup-Jotuas 01 spawtue ajq
.3th U; ‘memd [13th uotue

pun SJUQPISQJ taut OS 8181!

‘paznepos 9112 slewtue
SILL 'spztutue all] 1mm A81

-un10A out ‘49qu

q

-ulo:) S,

St: qons

senapos aueumq

'sAtzs 9L] “‘1!

tnoqe >lUlll1 01 mm p,1,, gmq t: qans But

projects have guidelines that
permit seniors to have pets,
and in California, thanks to a
bill sponsored by Senate
President Pro Tern David A.
Roberti (,D-Los Angeles).
state-funded public housing
has similar rules (the federal
government uses 60 years as
the dividing line, and the
state 65).

But such regulations don’t
apply to private rental hous—
ing, where property owners
or their designated managers
have wide latitude over what
is essentially private proper-
ty. Many landlords react with
hostility toward even the
suggeStion of regulatory leg:
islation: “I don’t want the
government telling me what
to do with my private proper-
ty,’ said one North Holly»
wood landlord who declined
to be identified.

Glenn Laabs, a director of
the statewide California
Apartment Assn, acknowl-
edges the srudies that show
that pets can markedly im-
prove the quality of seniors’
lives and says, “I can’t speak
for the association, because
we haven’t discussed this. But
personally, I would like to
allow seniors to have pets. In
fact, I considered doing that
once; lawyers told me it
would be illegal, that Califor-
nia law says you can’t discrim-
inate, can’t allow pets for
some tenants and not others.”

Concurring with Laabs is
Santa Barbara attorney Don
Kuhn, who has long been
interested in the law as it
applies to seniors. Kuhn
cites the 1982 Marina Point
decision, in which the Cali-
fornia Supreme Court ruled
that a Marina del Rey apart-
ment complex could not

Continued

smug]

marp 1! €112]
DIJIDQdS‘

um ‘11:le
wdopAap Butsnoq tit athz

((

it. [0}] 'U99

(0 >1313f UIZIU
tpns mom:
DJJHDJI

uag a!“ U; 9w!)
SdllljJan ‘sAtzs

u! map 9112
u ptnom 1!]

suoo nauuogg pjnom
(RtlaluthRQ-q) usuuog

1
I

-A1qu19ssv guuotmutuluostpn
01 mm 9th Butﬁump moqrz 1r,
uuuad 1,uom mm BIUJOJHBD 1U

-ndod Alamanxa stzm ntq spin.

put: .9me aquomzj 30 101 t:
'qutuassv 9th

onponut Japt
Jatstza urz [am

'(s‘iotuas JO] Ant

pauBtsap SIUQ

ut 9812 uo pasttq 99m! 112th

Adam: sq Ith
met; unoo aql

SIOUIOOJ t2 ut urinotp) 981:

UIIUIJDSIp 01 RIUJO‘IIII’f)

jo stseq out no an:

1! ‘ptsu

‘lujttjmtl

Ul IRUOUHUIS‘UODUH .X] DIHOM

jup

l‘)

l

anmnq not

, 2

.1th

”HOD

 

 




THE PHOENIX GAZETTE - Oct. 17, 1986

County backs
down as dog
lovers growl

limit on number ofpeis
per home is set aside

By Pat Flonnery
The Phoenix Gazette

About. 100 dog lovers came prepared to battle with
the Maricopa County Planning and Zoning Commis-
sion, only to discover its bark was worse than its bite.

The commission -- which was prepared to revise its
ordinance limiting the number of pets in a household —-
heard about an hour of testimony opposing the move.
Thursday before throwing in the towel and admitting it
was not prepared for the task.

Instead, the commission asked the animal enthusi
asts to convene among themselves over the next 120
days and devise a “model” ordinance worthy of
consideration by the commission. The commission then
will rehear the matter.

“I knew this would be a nightmare no matter what
happened,” commissioner Earl de Berge said. “The
solution isn’t up here on the bench, it’s out there" in
the audience.

The spirited meeting at the county Board of
Supervisors auditorium drew a near-capacity crowd of
people opposing the ordinance change. A call for
speakers in support of the measure drew nothing but
sﬂence.

The issue came before the commission as the result
of a case last month in which a Sun City woman was
cited for county zoning violations. Mabel Brunner,
president of the Arizona Humane Society Auxillary,
owns 15 dogs and occasionally baby-sits pets free of
charge at her home.

Brunner’s neighbors complained about barking and
disruption of the neighborhood, leading her to be cited
for running an illegal kennel. The ordinance defines a
kennel as “any establishment at which dogs and cats
are bred or raised for sale, or boarded, cared for,
commercially or on a non-profit basis.”

County officials interpret it as legally limiting the
number of pets per household to one. Anything over
that requires a special use permit issued by the zoning
commission.

Brunner applied for the permit after being cited, but
her request was postponed until county officials
reviewed the ordinance.

The alternative suggested by the county staff
Thursday raised the limit to four. Any property in
‘ which a person “harbors or maintains five or more dogs
over the age of four months” would be considered a
. kennel needing a special use permit.

While more lenient than the existing ordinance «m
which rarely has been enforced —-— opponents argued

    

that it failed to deal with the key
issue — responsible pet ownership.

Representatives of several hobby
breeding groups said the limitations
would force them to obtain permits
even though their pets do not cause
problems. Meanwhile, they said,

    

irresponsible owners of a single pet
would not be penalized for allowing
their pets to disrupt neighborhoods.

Commissioners voted unani:
mously to await a proposal from the
animal groups before devising a
new ordinance.

 

FT. LAUDERDALE SUN-SENTINEL - Oct. 23, 1986

Dogfighting
‘way of life’
in Louisiana

The Associated Press

LIVINGSTON, La. — “Release .
your dogs,” yells the referee.

The owners let go and jump
back. The pit bulls leap, each grab-
bing the other’s neck in jaws that
clamp down with 1,500 pounds of
pressure, twice the strength of any
other dog.

The dogs twist and try to shake
each other off. Their owners and
perhaps 100 other spectators shout
from makeshift bleachers that sur-
round a shallow carpeted box. Be-
hind them a generator roars, creat-
ing power to light the nighttime
woods.

Usually at least one of the eight

 

 

to 10 dogs that fight will die from
exhaustion or loss of blood. A veter-
inarian may be on hand to treat se—
riously wounded dogs. ’

This is what dogfights are like,
say peOple who have been there.

“I’m not trying to whitewash
dogfighting and say it is not cruel.
It’s a rough sport,” said Norm, one
of 81 peOple arrested in a raid Aug.

2 at an abandoned chicken farm in '

Livingston Parish.

But most dogfighters are the
sons and grandsons of dogfighters,
said Norm, who spoke to the Baton
Rouge Sta te- Times on the condition
his name be kept secret.

“It’s a way of life for them,” he
said. ..

 

“Dogfighters think horse racers
are the cruelest . . . in the world. Or
football, you watch it and see a
player knock another player down
and bust his leg, and all the people
on the sidelines jump up and cheer
for that. That’s not cruel?” he
asked.

Norm went to his first dogfight
when he was 16 years old. He’d
been to more than 100 fights
around the country and had raised,
trained and fought dogs for 12
years before he retired from the
sport in 1981.

Now, he says, he only gets to a
few fights a year to see friends in
the business.

Of the more than 150 people
charged with dogfighting since
Louisiana made it a felony in 1984,
only one person has been convicted.

“The Legislature really hand-
cuffed the prosecutors on these
dogfighting cases,” said District
Attorney Mike Henry of Natchi-
toches.

The problem, he said, is that it’s
not illegal to watch a dogfight.

It is a felony to cause, aid or abet,
promote, stage or sell tickets for a
dogfight or to operate a dogfighting
facility.

Louisiana law also requires that
confiscated dogs be kept by a veter-
inarian, at the expense of the par-
ish, until their owners have been
identified and convicted. In most
cases, no one claims the dogs be—
cause they are afraid they will be
arrested.

“We still haven’t disposed of the
dogs in connection with dogfighting
that we had confiscated in March,”
Henry said.

“We have to spend thousands of
dollars caring for these dogs before
we can finally destroy them under
abandonment,” he said.

Norm figures there are about 15
peOple in the state who breed and '
raise pit bulls and fight them every
two or three weeks.

He said they don’t treat their ani-
mals well, but there’s no truth to
the stories that people feed their
dogs live animals to build their lust
for blood, Norm said.

“They are trained on treadmills
or turntables that spin while the
dog remains stationary. The dogs
are trained for endurance so they
won’t get hurt,” he said.

“Pit bulls are born with a lust to
fight,”'he said.

Veterinarian Craig Alberty, pub—
lic relations director for Capital
Area Animal Welfare Society, feels
most peOple are getting out of dog-
fighting.

“It’s too much trouble to try to
evade the police,” he said.

 




DALLAS MORNING NEWS - October 23, 1986

Water, water everywhere -- and he loves

20 years on job haven’t dried up
aquarium director’s love for work

 

 

By Jacy Williamson

Special to The News

ORT WORTH -— Pass the

rhinoceroses and ' the

giraffes, turn left at the
zebras and you’ll be greeted by
close to. 2,000 fish -— and Bill Huff-
man.

Huffman is celebrating two
decades as supervisor of the Fort
Worth Zoo’s aquarium. '

“I’m doing things I’d be doing
for a hobby if I was employed
somewhere else,” Huffman said.
“In 20 years I’ve always had a lot of
fun. It gets in your blood when
you’re little, and you either do it
as a career or as a hobby.”

It was his experience with peo-
ple and animals in general and his
knowledge of machinery, he be-
lieves, that got Huffman the job
back in 1966.

His official duties include
being responsible for the aquar-
ium building, its five employees
and the care of all the animals in
it.

 

Huffman noted that one of the
biggest parts of the job is keeping
the water clean and the environ-
ment appealing for the animals.
“If you take care of the water, the
fish almost take care of them-
selves,” he said.

Approximately a quarter of the
building’s tanks contain salt wa-

1‘...
.rl

M33”:-
The Dallas Morning News: Randy Eli Grothe
After 20 years as supervisor of the Fort Worth Zoo’s aquarium, Bill Huffman still is hooked on animals.

 




ter. These must be maintained
constantly to assure an appropri-
ate amount of salt to water. ‘ . ‘

Aquariums couldn’t always dis-
play saltwater creatures. Only
about 20 years ago did dehydrated
sea salts for the tanks become
commercially available. It was in
Huffman’s second year that the
zoo was able to build a new salt-
water wing at the aquarium —
adding seals, sea lions and a vari-
ety of ocean fish.

It was this event that solidified
Huffman ’5 long career at the zoo.

The Dallas native, who gradu-
ated from Arlington State College
(now the University of Texas at
Arlington) with a bachelor’s de-
gree in biology, had been teaching
math in Rendon for two years.

“When I got offered this job, I
only planned to stay two years and
then return to teaching,” Huff-
man said. His lifelong love of ani-
mals prompted him to accept the
zoo position. “You don’t get of-
fered a job like this often."

He applied with the Fort Worth
Independent School District as the
end of his planned two-year stint
at the zoo neared. "But when they
offered me a job, we were building
the new (salt-water) wing on,” he
said. Huffman asked the school
district to put his application on
hold, and officials told him to call

back when he wanted it to become.

same again. He never did.
Huffman has the best of both

worlds now. He is active in the cars

A'ﬁ

of animals and still remains in a 1

teaching position of sorts.

While volunteers at the zoo give
tours tolvisitors ranging from pre-
schoolers to senior citizens, the
staff speaks to advanced students of
thescjences.

:Th‘é most fun I have is when
some‘really brilliant high school or
college students come in and I’m
able to exchange information with
thein —- to tell them something they
couldn’t hear anywhere else,” Huff-
man said.

As Huffman walks around the
aquarium, pointing out a fish here
and a fact there, he shows great in-
terest in his work.

He points to a white-bellied cat-
fish a— it was here before Huffman
started 20 years ago. A slender Afri-

caii lungfish also predates his ar-
rival.

He stops to see if the alligator
snapping turtle will display his
"lure” today. This breed of turtle
has a wormlike projection on its

 

mncue. It leaves its mouth wide

opé; for long periods of time (un-
derwater), tempting prey with its
lure. [ ~ .

._ especies, which can weigh up
to 250 pounds, is one of 17 kinds of
turtles "found in the “Dallas-Fort
Wqﬁharea, and is the only one of
that number that Huffman has not
found in the wild.

Looking into a 27,000-gallon tank
—- the size of a backyard swimming
p001 —- With a glass side for observa-
tion, Huffman searches throw gh

1 dozens of large tropical fish for the

giant South American river turtle.
It has been at the zoo about 15 years
nudity? be the only one of its kind
infthe anited States.

Huffman says he is in charge of
acquiring new fish and deciding
which, species to obtain. Almost
every _;day a new arrival comes in.
“We go: in some clawed frogs yes-
terday.” And almost every day one
dies. “Some have a life expectancy
of less than two years in the wild, so
simple arithmetic will get you al-
mostiqne dead a day.”

Species at the aquarium range
from nurse sharks to paddlefish to
20 species of small sichlids from one
lake (lga’ke Malawi) in Africa. From
sea lions to crawfish to an Atlantic
lobster to a giant freshwater prawn,
the aquarium has them all.

It also has scorpions and tarantu-

las. “They had to put them some-
where,“ he explained.

What it doesn’t have -— and what
Huffman would like to acquire in
future -- is a sting; say or an oc-
topus) ‘

For Huffman, all his duties at the
zoo provide a natural outlet for a
love ofanimals that began when he
was ilk-youngster collecting insects
and turtles. He remembers being in-
fluenced by an older boy in his Boy
Scout troop who was an avid snake
collector. He was 14 when the troop
began-collecting reptiles and am-
phibians for an exhibit. And he’s
beenhooked on animhls ever since.

 

 

NORTHSIDE NEIGHBOR CAtlanta)
October 29, 1986

[Dressage event
to benefit Zoo

High-level dressage riders from
= throughout Georgia will participate
in an equestrian fundraiser
; sponsored by the Georgia Dressage

and Combined Training Association
to benefit Zoo Atlanta.

The event is set for noon Nov. 22

at Silver. Birch Farm, 14295 Birm-
' 'ingham Highway in Alpharetta.

Participants are high-level

3 dressage riders from Georgia and

Mrs. Karin Schluter of Elmlohe,
3, West Germany, who is among the
‘. top class of dressage riders in
,- Germany.

7 Between 1971 and 1978 Mrs.
Schluter was a member of the A-
cadre National Dressage Team and
: won four German, two European.
one world championship and a silver
medal at the 1972 Olympics. Current
champion of Hampburg and
Schleswig-Holstein, she has been
conducting. dressage clinics for
Several years in California, New,
York, Florida and other parts of the
country.
3‘" She wwill perform a ’Kur,’ or
i'n'msical freestyle similar to ice
jgskating, on her own Grand Prix
=f herses. .
i '._.fl‘ickets are $25. Proceeds will go
i to‘Zoo Atlanta’s purchase of a baby
elephant. Checks should be made
lpayable to Georgia Dressage and
‘ Combined Training Associansn. at-
tention. Inge Bledel. 3530 Piedmont
Road NE“ 'nts Ga. 30305.
Call 442-8666 in: nor-e information.

..—M_~...-¢—,mv- m w

M

 

 

 




DALLAS MORNING NEWS - October 22, 1986

Exotlc'game owner
says state law ;,.._

York, who operates a 7 zoo-acre
ranch in the mountains of far West
Texas, says the Texas Legislature
has caused him grief by passing a
law requiring out-of-state residents
to pay $75 for a hunting license.

“1 have enough trouble with
mountain lions getting my calves. I
don’t need this other problem,”
York said. He runs 50 head of regis-
tered Texas longhorns and 80 head
of crossbred mother cows on his
ranch, 36 miles northwest of Fort
Davis. ‘

York is among several exotic-

Sam mess in Wm m who

feel the law violates their rights as
landowners and makes it difficult
'to attract hunters.
York said he and other ranchers
. depend financially on exotic-game
hunters, who increasingly are
choosing to go to states such as Flor-
,ida, which does not require outsm-
state hunting 11c ,,,,, -. .,
Exotic animals formerly were
considered domestic livestock, and

- -....‘dowiththemas
they wished Ranchers would re- g,

port poached or stolen exotics to
their county sheriffs, not a game
warden. A law pasSed by the 1985
Legislature placed poaching of ex?
otics under the jurisdiction of the
Texas Parks and Wildlife Depart-
ment. ‘

York would nasty now my

3111.. Hi!!- ‘
sheep, wild sheep '1
and Sardinia.

State Sen. Bill Sims, D-San An-
gelo, opposes, the law, and said a
number of individuals and organ-
izations have contacted him asking
forachange.

Texas Sheep and Goat Raisers
ciation, said some association mem-
bers are interested in changing the
law.

“We want to establish that exot-
ics belong to the man who raises

sheen?! hem

Sims said he wants landowners
to decide whether they want exot-
ics to be classifisd as livestock or
wildlife.

The Parks and Wildlife Depart-
ment lobbied for the law to make it
easier for game wardens to enforce
poaching laws and 1e ,, -

charge poachers, 31mm“???,iuggggzg

Rep. Fred Agnich of Dallas on pr ,2

posal for the upcoming Legislature.
But Agnich has indicated to Fred
King, publisher of the Hunting

'ﬁ Ranch Business newsletter, that the
"problem may be larger since free-

roaming exotics compete with na-

' tive whitetail deer for feed on over-
‘ grazed land.

Agnich intends to propose legis

. 1.3909! to allow 15131198118611 hunting,

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ ﬁ g News
' a’
. ; ces on
' proposal
ng exotic

game ,and hunting

would be regulated by the Parks

and Wildlife Department.

Sims said exotics should be the ’
property of the owner, regardless of .

l. .whiovmée c the“ ﬁg ﬁ

Sims, executive secretary of ée',‘

“I Mean '

get into another man’s pasture, he j
lets me know,” Sims said. “Exotics .

are no different.”

According to King’s publication,
Agnich admits his proposal would
be difficult for exotic-game owners
without high fences.

York said such a regulation

would be worse than the licensing V
- requirement. His ranch is in rugged
mountain" country, and regular

fencing costs are high. The cost of a
high fence would be prohibitive.

State Rep. Dudley Harﬁg. ﬁ ﬁ

uation wasn ’t the intent of ti 9‘

islature, ” and that he and Sims were

“working to correct it."

Betty 8. Kelso, president of the
Exotic Wildlife Association based in
Kerrville, told the Yorks that the as-
sociation would lobby for changes
in the wording of the code.

She told King that Texas “vio-
lated landowners' rights" with the

' new law.

A-20 Dallas Times Herald
Sunday, October 19, 1986

Sudan .
Wildlife
struggling

Peachers, drought
taking heavy toll.

Iiy HAMZA HENDAWI

_ Reuters

'KHARTOUM —— Poaching,
drought and war have taken a
heavy tell on Sudan’ 5 rich wildlife
agnd some animals, particularly rhi-
nos and leopards, are being threat-
oned with extinction.

“ “All our animal populations are
ing down,” said Gen. Mahgoub
-Bedawi, deputy director of Su—

dan’s wildlife forces. “We need

help urgently to rescue what is
left. ”

:Bedawi’ 5 men, who are assigned
to the Interior Ministry, are out-

nned by illegal hunters as they
am to protect the varied array of
desert and tropical animals in the
lﬁargest country in Africa.

He said organized gangs of
poachers from neighboring coun-
tries were armed with automatic
weapons and modern communica-
dons equipment in their hunt for

' ivory and skins.

His forces are stretched to the
limit in their efforts to protect
grized animals.

“We need rifles, vehicles and
uniforms,” he said. “We are up .
against what way back was just a
sﬁmall number of poachers ”using '

-mitive locally made arms.”
."‘Now they have increased in
ﬁlmberﬁs, have aﬁt1tomaticﬁﬁweapons

 

 

 




and advanced communication
equipment that allow them to car-
ry on with their organized sabo—
tage of wildlife.”

Bedawi said his men — who
have authority to shoot poachers
on sight —— recently received a
supply of arms and now can put
up greater resistance.

“Clashes are more frequent. now
and we suffer casualties,” he said.
“Six months ago we had one of
.our officers gunned down by
poachers.”

He said the poachers operated in
border areas with the help of local
Sudanese. Afﬂuent Sudanese also
depleted the wildlife by making il—
legal hunting trips.

Wildlife officials fear black and
”white rhinoceroses, leopards and
. Soemmering gazelles are in danger
of extinction.

The numbers of other wild ani-
mals also are decreasing alarming-
ly, they say. The dwindling herds
include rare species such as oryx
wild sheep and Addra gazelles.

But those are rough estimates.
The wildlife forces do not know
precisely how bad the situation is
because they do not have resourc-
es to conduct an extensive survey.

A three-year bush war in south—
ern Sudan between the goverment
and guerrillas also has hurt wild—
life. Bedawi suspects the rebels of
poaching in the vast expanse of
virgin land in the south.

Most of Sudan’s national parks
are in the south —-— in Equatoria.
Bahr al-Ghazal and Upper Nile.
The war has prevented members
,of the wildlife force deployed
~ there from doing their job. They
' are harassed frequently by guerril~
" las of the Sudan People's Libera-
7 tion Army, Bedawi said.

- He declined to disclose the
strength of the wildlife forces, in-
~sisting it was a military secret
since they ﬁght alongside govern—
i ment troops against the rebels.

A drought in 1984 depleted ani-
- mal numbers, and now again
Ithreatens their environment in
j parts of the south. Expansion of
~ croplands also is eating into their
1’ habitat.

The plight of Sudan’s wild ani-
:- mals is best reflected in the Khar-
1' toum, Zoo, where Bedawi has his
3. headquarters. _

There are a handful of animals
in the zoo, built in the early 19205
and now suffering from the chron—
ic economic difficulties affecting
Sudan.

Bedawi said people who cap-
tured wild animals made much
more money selling them on the
black market than to the 200.

I
I
I
I

 

THE DENVER POST
10/18/86

Mustangs
in need of
own corral

Inmate-broken steeds
itching for adoption

By Marityn Robinson
Denver Post Staff Writer

A program in which Colorado
prison inmates tame wild horses
for adoption is working so well that
officials are beating the drums to
find homes for the animals.

Only 29 of the 50 wild horses
trained by Caﬁon City inmates in
the first month of the pilot pro-
gram found homes.

Next month, another 50 horses
will be ready for adoption

The problem, officials say, is
that the list of prospectiv e adoptive
Egmes in Colorado has been deplet

To remedy the situation, offi-
cials plan an open house Wednes
day to give people interested in
adoption a chance to look at the.
horses, which are on a ranch at the
prison complex.

“They’re some beautiful animals
out there — all different colors
sizes and ages,” said Tom Powell,
a spokesman for the state Depart-
ment of Corrections. “1 think once
the word gets out, the horses will
become very much in demand.”

The program is a joint effort of
the corrections department, the
U. S. Bureau of Land Management
and the National Organization for
Wild American Horses.

Its aims are to provide vocation-
al training for inmates, and make
the wild horses more suitable for
adoption.

The wild horses are being coral-
led, officials say, because there are
too many of them and they are
competing for food with ranchers’
livestock.

The animals trained at Canon
City that don’t find homes in Colo-
rado will be shipped to other adop-
tion centers across the country

People who want to attend the
open house should report Wednes-
day between 8 a.m. and 3 pm. to
the corrections department check-
point on US. 50, about 3 miles east
of Canon City.

More information and advance
application forms can be obtained
by contacting Walt J akubowski,
Bureau of Land Management, 3080
Main St., Canon City 81212.

 

 

DENVER POST — 10/17/86

Grizzly guilty
in man’s death,

0 O
inquiry finds
By United Press International

YELLOWSTONE PARK, Wyo.
— A board of inquiry has conclud-
ed a female grizzly bear killed a
38-year-old Great Falls, Mont,
man found dead in Yellowstone
National Park on Oct. 7.

Rangers searching for William
J. Tesinsky found the bear feeding
on the man’s remains and the bear
was shot and killed, but the rang-
ers had been unable to determine
whether the bear had actually
killed the man.

The board issued its preliminary
finding Thursday after two days of
meeting. It is expected to issue a
full report on its findings and con—
clusions in the case in about two
weeks.

The board is made up of repre-
sentatives of the National Park
Service, US. Fish and Wildlife Ser-
vice and the US. Forest Service,
along with other bear experts.

Tesinsky’s death is the first in
the park from a bear attack since a
24-year-old Swiss woman was
killed on July 30, 1984. _

His body was found in an open
area interspersed with forest near
Otter Creek.

 

 




best quality leathers are domestical-
ly raised lambskin and lambsuede.~
Deerskin is the finest material for
gloves. .

Leathers look to be the fashion ., ..
fabric for the ’80s. And this is due , __ , .
to modern technology making leath- tr n
ers more versatile in their use. E33; ~

Exotic leather designs can now "
be pressed and rolled onto calfskin
and lambskin through new develop-
ments in the handling of leather.

And tanning methods are creating ~ _-...
fine, delicate skins that dra e as :5 .
we as silk. -

The number of unusual furs on
the market has increased because
more wild animals are being domes- ‘;,:‘:~..-:-'- _.
tically farmed for fur purposes. Silo .

— October 23, 1986

run; I

t

s ,-'

/"

ver fox, a mutation of the fox’s nat- ' .

ural coloring, has always been bred

domestically. Lynx, ostrich and "

French rabbit are some of the ani- . -' :

mals that recently have begun to be

ranched. . '
According to Ed Thomas, chief

executive officer of Ram Fur and

Leather Care, Inc., all snakeskins

other than boa constrictor and ana-

conda are impossible to clean. The '

scale pattern of the skin is fragile . ”ﬂ " ,

and scales will shed during cleaning '

procedures. Pony and zebra are

cleanable skins, but the hair begins

to fall off after a certain amount of

wear. Thomas warns customers that

some brightly dyed leathers will not

hold their color. Test whether or not

the color will stay by rubbing a ‘S .

handkerchief across the garment’s 7

surface.

RICH ADDICKS/Staa

IT’S A JUNGLE: A sheared French rabbit’iur jacket underan American rabbit veSi overa pony skin-trimmed
lambsuede skirt and pony skin belt brings out the animal in, Lucy Hatcher. All fromT. Edwards. T -- ,7

*i@XOh

. u

.\

 

Tnatfé' 'in‘iEndangered Species of Wild
’Fauna‘",and ‘Flora (CITES).
‘5‘Pr0per documentation is required

very limited applications. The main use
. for zebra, pony, lion or tiger skins-iis'ac’é
cent detailing on accessories, handbags; ,,

By Mitzi Gammon
/ Staff Writer

 

Animals in the jungle are all a-trem-

ble. The word is out that this season’s

fashions have brought an increase in the
demand for exotic skins and furs.

A stroll thrOugh the showing-mans is ..

as colorful as a viSit to the zoo. Gar-
ments are constructed from the skins
and furs of lions, tigers and bears - and

elephants, zebras, ponies, ostriches, alli»

gators and rabbits. Monkey is the newest
exotic fur keeping women warm.
Many of the exotic leathers have

shoes and outerwear. Elephant, alligator
and ostrich skins are used for belts,

handbags and other personal leather ac-

cEssories such as wallets.

handbags and accessories. Newsweek
magazine reports dog handbags a

are being manufactured byan Indian"
firm that collects the 150 dogs that die

 

Qaily in Bombay.
The killing of wild species is regulat-
ed by the Conventionof International

"for" the importing

g skin is the latest leather lookfor

and eXporting of
skins,” said Burma Campbell, a compli-
ancetechnia'ianfor the Atlanta branch of
the Fish'a'ndrg‘Wildlife Service. “So, we

can aSSume,'thejproducts would not be in
- the 'stOres unless they were there lawful~

1y.” .. — "5n 1". i
.’ Formostfashion applications, the

 

See Was 48 u

 

 




THE HOUSTON POST - October 12, 1986

Looking for a pet to share companionship?
This is Adopt—A-Dog month at the SPCA

Something missing in your life? Looking for a
little companionship? Perhaps a canine addition
to your family?

If so, your timing couldn’t be better because
October is Adopt-A-Dog month and there are plen—
ty of them waiting for loving owners at the Hous-
ton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals.

All you need to do is stop by the HSPCA’s offices
at 519 Studemont, pick out a pooch and fill out an
application with an adoption counselor. Bring the
entire family when selecting your new pet and
make as many visits as you want. The HSPCA
wants to make sure you get the dog that’s right for
you and your family.

When the adoption process has been completed,
you will receive a special doggie bag to take home.
The bag includes a booklet with tips on dog train-
ing, Tuffy’s Guide to Canine Health and Fitness
and complimentary samples of Jerky Treats Dog
Snacks and Meaty Bone Dog Biscuits.

The HSPCA is open seven days a week, 9 a.m.-
4:30 pm. Monday through Friday; 9 a.m.-5 pm.
on Saturday; and 1-5 pm. on Sunday. The adop-
tion fee is $38 per animal. For more information,
call the HSPCA at 869-8227 .

 

 

 

 

— KEN LANTERMAN A dog will be a loyal, loving c
you give him the chance.

 

 

(gaff/M“: IW 2/01 VED

 

PETS AND SMALL CHIL-
DREN are the focus of an educa-
tional program at a humane soci-
ety in Fort Bend County. If you
have time available on week-
days, you’re invited to visit local
elementary schools to talk with
youngsters about. basic pet care.
The sessions are informal so
public speaking skills are not re-
quired. A few hours a week of
your time is all that is asked.

 

introduce kids to proper pet care as a volunteer at a hu-
mane society in Fort Bend County.

 




BUSINESS WEEK - March 21, 1988

all of its creatures comfort.
They trusted Hitachi for the weather.

- Trust the Bronx Zoo to provide

 




In the tropical rain forests of South
Asia, nature provides its creatures with
the right conditions for comfort and sur-
vival. AtJungleWorld, in the Bronx Zoo,
Hitachi helps to provide it.

Since it opened in mid-1985,
JungleWorld has been home to a spec-
tacular variety of wild animal species
and plant life indigenous to Asia’s
rain forests.

But bringing Borneo to the Bronx
was a formidable task, and recreating the
weather of a tropical rain forest pre-
sented one of the biggest challenges.

The glass roof that encloses the
37,000 square foot enclave posed a spe-
cial dilemma. The summer sun would
overheat the habitat. The winter cold
would cause the proboscis monkeys
to shiver. And the cost of paying for an

electrical climate control system gave
everyone cold feet.

Hitachi, however, came to the
rescue. Its Paraflow Direct Fired
Chiller-Heater, a single unit which pro-
vides both cooling and heating, fine
tunes the temperature and humidity,
and, because it operates on gas or oil,

of electricity.

“47 " '1} ' H , '*
herefore, t nts of
JungleWorld have all the creature com-
forts of home, while the 200’s budget
has all the comfort of a 50% reduction
in energy costs.
If Hitachi’s Chiller-Heater can keep
a Bali Mynah bird chirping away in the
Bronx and the 200’s staff singing its
praises at the same time, imagine What
it is doing for ofﬁce buildings, hospitals,

universities, hotels and apartment com~
plexes across America.

Improving the way Americans live
and work has been a commitment of
Hitachi America since 1959. We make a
wide range of products, from chiller-
heaters to semiconductors, computers
and other sophisticated electronic
and industrial equipment which allows
us to serve your needs no matter how
specialized. Just ask the Bronx Zoo.

For further information on the
Paraﬂow Chiller—Heater series, please
contact our Industrial Component Divi-
sion, 50 Prospect Avenue, Tarrytown,
NY 10591-4698, 914/352-5800 or our
North American distributor, Gas Energy,
Inc., 718/403-2602.

Hitaehi America,Ltd.

@HITACHP

 




HARPER'S MAGAZINE - April 1988

Q: Why can’t this veal Calf walk?

A: He has only two feet.

Actually, less than two feet. Twenty two inches to be
exact. His entire life is spent chained in a wooden box
measuring only 22 inches wide and 56 inches long. The

‘box is so small that the calf can’t walk or even turn
around.

Most people think animal abuse is illegal. It isn’t. In
veal factories, it’s business as usual. “Milk-fed” veal is
obtained by making a calf anemic. The calf is not fed
mother’s milk. He’s fed an antibiotic laced formula that
causes severe diarrhea. He must lie in his own excrement
—choking on the ammonia gases. He’s chained in a
darkened building with hundreds of other baby calves
suffering the same fate. They are immobilized, sick,

and anemic.

Toxic Veal

The reckless use of
oxytetracycline, mold
inhibiting chemicals,
Chloramphenicol,
neomycin, penicillin,
and other drugs is not
just bad for calves.

It is toxic to you.

 

Chloramphenicol has caused fatal bone marrow disease

in people, but illicit use in factory farm animals continues.

USDA warns that “detection is extremely difficult.”

Antibiotics in veal and other factory farm products create
virulent strains of bacteria that wreak havoc on human
health. Salmonella poisoning is reaching epidemic
proportions.

Veal factories maximize profits for agribusiness drug
companies because they are a breeding ground for
disease. To keep calves alive under such torturous
conditions, they are continually given drugs which are
passed on to consumers.

It doesn’t have to be this way. And with your help, it
won’t be. Please, don’t buy veal!

I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
.I

Campaign Against Factory Farming

YES! Factory farms must be stopped from misusing drugs.
abusing farm animals, and destroying America‘s family
farms. Enclosed is my tax-deductible contribution of:

El $20 Cl $50 El $100 D 5500 [:1 Other_______

Name

 

Address

 

 

City/State/Zip

A free Consumer Alert pack is available upon request.

THE HUMANE FARMING ASSOCIATION

1550 California Street 0 Suite 6 0 San Francisco. CA 94109

r-—--——-——-————-——-———--
L——-—-——I—---—-——-——-———-

 




The horse we deem one of the noblest

of beasts, a subjective judgment based up: ,

on its (1) handsome appearance and (2)
capacity to become domesticated.

Fossil studies tell us the ancestor Of the
horse ran wild 40 million years ago. Pre-
. historic man domesticated the animal (af-
ter taming the dog and the cow), first for
food, and later as a work animal. Refer-
ences to thefsport of racing horses go back
more than 3,000 years.

Fossils also tell us the horse and its
ancestors made four appearances in North
America. The third ended some 25,000
years ago. That is a little before or about
the time the ancestors of those we used to
'call Indians and now call Native Ameri-
cans arrived from Asia. 80 those “first
Americans” had little or no acquaintance
with the horse, wild or domesticated. The
animal returned to America with the Span-
iards in the early 16th century; some es-
caped and entered the wild state in the
Far West. .

The “wild horse” is of such controver-
sy in the federal bureaucracy and among
lovers of animals that Congress has be-

-.2.'

TAMPA TRIBUNE - March 15, 1988

 

Holmes Alexander

 

. They Eat Horses, Don't They?

come the court of last resort to decide its
fate. The Bureau of Land Management,
which bears the onus of dealing with them,
estimates there are now about 50,000 on
public lands in 10 Western states. They are
not entitled to protection under the Endan-
gered Species Act, since their history
clearly shows they are no more an indige-
nous species than the pesky — and less
noble. —— armadillo. But they are protected
by federal law.

The Office of Management and Budget
complains that it’s costing $20,000 a day
just to feed 8,600 horses and their “cute”
burro cousins (also descendants of immi-
grants to these shores) penned in BLM
corrals to prevent overgrazing of the lands

the herds occupy. The penning is a conse:

quence of the 1971 law protecting the ani-

 

”‘50 Hv-o .._..

gaggeggaggzﬂagn. i=0 3
esszaoasgais-a>g~ a
r" (o Hh—I HST '0 '99 ’1
“acﬁaéﬁ 33‘3”“??ch 8:3;
B§o£g>‘w"8=00w ' 3
:«maaac‘ﬁgsg 3"”0 § "i
m azmtycbz3cha ~-§:Q 3 0‘0 0
gc§a*~esaor°s§ 8 B

”'1 m v-g 9)

mm 0 t3
"3:3 ags‘imcm”mg§ H 3‘
v20 8%; n mtbrea>gin CL ” c;
génz-gwg'ggggag-w €18
~a§agsaeoaeaggg o E?
33 ....c_;r) ‘<- 00:30 :3 <1
om a:‘“E~-H0QWH€ :r '13
”1"1000 ”‘ :3:— mac
Hmfﬂ.§‘,<9gm0*§30%.I—a7 g. E,

£13112 112m A911) 9.11? miner};
05 'ooixaw mm; '90 am oiut
Buimoo senip .IGIDO pue sures

SVXHL

'03 JO [1110!“ UOEIHUI 821$ 92199
padjaq aA'eq Kaqi qot‘ am no
qinos ui seq [owed Japiog -
91.11 3111982 1saq aqi are 03123
pue 101303 ‘uopsanb inoqum
SOJEN KsoN
suapma at”

sqiuow uaAaja isnf uI “sexal

 

 

 

Sop Japuom Sugmus-stup at“ ‘bpou SVXELL

 

mals and requiring-the BLM to take care
of them.

An adoption program eased the prob-
lem to some extent for about a decade. In
time, though, the market became sated for
horses (but not burros, whose “cuteness”
makes them more acceptable). So the bu-
reau in 1984 began waiving the adoption
fee of $125 to those who would take the
horses in lots of 100 and keep them for a
least a year. That program foundered
when one wholesale buyer was caught
sending 400 “adopted” animals to a ren-
dering plant before the year was up.

Congress for a while let the BLM' kill
off excess healthy animals, but stopped the
practice after an outcry arose over the ex-
ecution of 3,000 one year.

That has left the Bureau of Land Man-

8861 ‘IZ Ipmw - awn

agement in effect shouting, “Somebody, do ,
SOMETHING!” Animal lovers argue the
whole controversy is but a BLM effort to
free grazing land for commercial cattle
herds, which they charge feed on public
lands at rates so low they amount to a
taxpayer subsidy.

The bureau director suggests setting up
a sanctuary program giving tax breaks to
landowners who would accept horses
deemed in excess of the grazing capacity
of their habitats. The Animal Protection
Institute urges changing the law to permit
relocation of excess horses on other feder-
al lands. The current statute limits the ani-
mals to lands on which they were found in
1971. The American Horse Protection As-
sociation demands that the horses be left

'where they are, and large-scale adoptions

be limited to non-profit charitable organi-

. zation. _ .

This is a great to-do over at most
50,000 ,“wild” horses in a country where
there are an estimated 9 million domesti- :
‘cated horses, the vast majority owned for
the pure pleasure of possessing and riding .
them. The wild horse is no more noble in
appearance and much less useful than the
domestic animal — which the wildest of
untamed mustang's ancestors was for gen-
erations. ’

Perhaps the best answer would be to
round up all the wild horses, sell those that
could be sold, and then put the rest to the
use for which our human ancestors first
domesticated theirs. The French, among ,
others, still relish horse meat. - ~*

Vz'and de cheval? anyone. One of th .
better French cookbooks suggests that any
recipe for preparing beef will result in
equally delicious horse meat. .

 

Holmes Alexander is associate editor;
of The Tribune and one of the last of the ..
horse artz’l/r’cvman.

 




indang’ered “
i s h sou g ht
«for breeding

{'1 ..'.,

a]. ,

Lake Mohave to be site

”of hunt for bonytail chub

ey §TEVEDANIELS 1 « ‘

Western Arizona Bureau

MNGMAN ~— A team of 50 state

25'...
3...“:
5".
39??"

”w

‘~ rt-éind federal researchers will tie

scend upon Lake Mohave this
weekend for an unparalleled rescue
effort. They will be searching for
the genetic future of one of the

'- rarest vertebrates in North Amer-
i, _.ica —- the bonytail chub.
The team, working from ﬁve

radio-connected camps along the
Arizona and Nevada shores of the
lake between Bullhead City and
Willow Beach, will be happy to find
even one surviving bonytail to

7 possibly improve the gene pool of

breeding stock at a federal fish
hatchery in New Mexico. An air-

' plane will be stationed nearby for

immediate transport. - .

The operation is critical because,
as one researcher put it, “Once a,
species is gone, it is gone forever.
There is no reversing that next
week. It’s gone.”

Members of the weeklong expedi-
tion think that finding even one of
the fish might allow them to
strengthen the gene pool and help
reverse the threat to the bonytail’s

, existence that began with the
damming of? the Colorado River,
which forever changed fthe water-

way’s face.

Among. the victims of that
change are the four native "big
river” fish now threatened with
extinction: the Colorado River
squawfish, the prehistoric-looking
razorback, the humpback and the

~ bonytail chub.

Fifty years ago, a; were common

I‘.

PHOENIX ARIZONA REPUBLIC - March 4, 1988

 

 

Search
area

 

Lake Mead

Recreation Area

ngman 0

 

 

”1223's Bullhead City

 

The Arizona Republic

throughout the lower Colorado

River basin, including the Salt and
Gila rivers. The razorback was so
common that as late as 1949, a
commercial fishery existed on Sa-
guaro Laketwhere wagonloads of
the fish were harvested with pitch-
forks. But the change in character-
istics of the Colorado and its

tributaries —— from fast-moving,‘

muddy rivers to regulated water-
ways connecting idle reservoirs “.—
and the importation of "sport.” fish.

4., mainly trout and several species of

bass, all have but eliminated the
native species.

None of the natives have repro-
duced successfully in the wild in. at
least 35 years. But none is so rare
today as the bonytail, or Gila
elegans. What bonytails that exist
today are in captivity at the
National Fish Hatchery at Dexter,
N.M., which specializes in endan-
gered species. Others are at other
research facilities and, perhaps, in
small numbers in Lake Mohave
above Bullhead City.

The fish in captivity at Dexter 3
are the offspring of 10 adult fish .
netted in Lake Mohave for breeding

purposes in 1981. ~

0.

—— Chub, B2

‘rn

_ :«Since then, one or two a year
:have been captured. None have
: survived. Now the original adults
are gone, too. _

“The organism is extremely rare.
In fact, it is one of the rarest
vertebrates in North America,”
said Bill Kepner, a non—game fisher-

" 'ies biologist for the US. Fish and

' Wildlife Service.
The bonytail, scientists say, is in

the same class as the California
3 condor, which exists today only in
' captivity. 3‘ ' '

A soon-to-bereleased recovery
plan for the bonytail drafted by
federal researchers frequently is

described as "sort of a sender plan.”

W.L. Minckley, an Arizona State
University researcher whose 1973
Fishes of Arizona is the bible of

fisheries biologists in the South-
.wst, said, "In Other words, the
ifde'cisienihas been made to empha—

size captive reproduction because

the ﬁsh is so rare that its recovery
‘1 is otherwise doubtful.”

The team of researchers and

! wildlife experts heading for Lake
3 Mohave, the largest team assem-
‘gbled in Arizona to date, would be

‘ excited to ﬁnd a single bonytail. To
l3discover more would make them
Eecstatic.

i What ﬁsh they find most likely
' will be approaching death. The only

3 known bonytails in the wild were
f spawned before the damming of the

f—rive'r 35 years ago. The species was

listed as endangered in 1980. Since '
' 1974, 36 adults have been seen.

“There has been no evidence of

A successful reproduction in Lake

Mohave,” Minckley said.

He estimates the average age of
surviving bonytails at more than 40
years. ' '

The future of the bonytail may

not appear quite so grave when it, is
‘* considered that bonytail ‘ young

have been transplanted back into
Arizona and California waters ev-

, ery year since 1983. Last year

alone, about 19,000 3- to 5-inch fish
went to ASU’s Research Park,,I_-§‘m

 




Mohave and the Imperial Valley
Warmwater Fish Hatchery at Ni-
land, Calif.

But it is doubtful they survived.

What worries researchers most is
the nagging doubt whether the
genetic makeup of these progeny ——
the offspring of a mere 10 survivors
of the species —— is such that they
will be strong enough to survive,
that these fish are of suitable stock
to perpetuate the species.

Jim Brooks, a fisheries biologist
_at the Dexter hatchery, is one of
those worried researchers.

“Some people,” he said, “say you
only need 50 individuals of each sex
to start your population. Some say
100, some say 200, it just depends.
And in the case of bonytail, our
answer is the more the better,
because our whole brood stock is
from a very few fish, and so what
we’ve got is a situation where we’re
probably never going to collect 100
bonytail. That is probably not going
to happen.

”What we would be comfortable
with is one more, but we’d be a lot
more comfortable with one more
after that, and so on. But we will
probably never be 100 percent sure.
that we have good stock. They are
just rare. They are very rare.”

How did the population become
so decimated? Why wasn’t the
bonytail decline noticed sooner?

”Nobody paid any attention to
these fish earlier,” Brooks said.

”This whole area was colonized
from the East, and what happened
was that fish that were common
from the Mississippi drainage were
transplanted over the Continental
Divide. All the catfishes, all the
bass, none of those fish are native.

“You alter the habitat and make
it inhabitable by bass, catfish and
sunfish. They are not. going to live
in a roaring, muddy river. And
here you’ve got these bonytails
which would probably do all right
in a reservoir and would success-
fully spawn and recruit were it not.
for the predator load (striped bass,
large mouth bass and catfish).

. "When the Salton Sea (a depres-

sion in southern California’s Impe-
rial Valley) filled at the turn of the
century when the dike broke on the
Colorado River, there were razor-
backs and bonytails in there and
they did successfully spawn and
reproduce in there. And so you
know they can do it, it’s just that
there are all these other fish to
gobble them up.”

In 1973, the bonytail was found
to be extinct in the Gila and the
Salt -—- everywhere, in fact, but in
the mainstream of the Colorado
River.

Buddy Jansen, manager of the
Dexter hatchery, calls the bonytail
"the rarest species I have ever dealt
wit .”

“All of us here have a very deep
feeling and respect for this fish,” he
said. “When we move a bonytail,
when we spawn them, there is a
special aura, because we know that
we are holding the whole of the
species in our hands.

The expedition to Lake Mohave
this weekend will be ”an all—out
effort,” Jansen said.

"We realize just how rare this
fish. is and how close we came to
losing it,” he said. “Thus, we realize
the importance of the task we have
in trying to perpetuate the species.”

Several miles of trammel nets,
which capture fish not by the gills,
but by entanglement, will be strung
across miles of coves. In the
shallows, researchers will use elec-
tronic shocking equipment
mounted on the bows of boats that
will bring fish to the surface with a
temporary charge.

Kepner, the Fish and Wildlife
Service fisheries biologist, has
worked with endangered fish for
nearly 10 years in Arizona but has
never seen a bonytail.

"So this could be a big trip for
me,” he said.

Jansen added, ”If there are a few
wild fish left, if we can find them
and keep them alive and incorpo-
rate them into the brood stock, just
perhaps we will broaden the ge-
netic base enough to ensure the
survival of the species.”

SOUTH FLORIDA Magazine — March 1988

l ' ' ' ”STUPID PET TRICKS

 

 

Move Over Spuds , t

uriosity may have killed the

cat, but jumping through
hoops and playing the piano
might get her on The Oprah Wine
frey Show Meet Princess Kitty, a
Miami feline that made her film
debut as Ernest Hemingway’s
favorite in Hemingaay, a TV mini—
series filmed in Key West last Auv
gust. Owner and trainer Karen
Payne, a Miami News reporter,
says the movie doesn’t show off
Princess Kitty’s range of talents,
but cast and crew were pleased
with her dramatic skills. “One day
Stacy Keach (the star of the film)
tweaked her tail, and she turned
around and hissed at him. lnstead
of throwing us off the set, they
said, ‘Oh, what acting!’ ”
Princess Kitty’s accomplishv

 

  

. _ , _. ,§N..\L:\,<. .
nk‘vx \\~.\.«"\ .\\

K'

ments include playing piano
(Happy Birthday and Three Blind
Mice are in her repertoire), play
ing basketball, jumping through
hoops and over hurdles, playing
a shell game, shaking hands, wavv
ing byevbye, rolling over, playing
dead, begging and counting.
“Cats are exceptionally intelligent
animals," Payne says. “Most peo—
ple think cats are too intelligent

    

to train because they won’t take

commands. But cats can be
trained.” ‘
Princess currently performs in
Miami schools, hospitals and
veterinary clinics. Payne says she
is popular everywhere she goes:
“I think a lot of people can iden
tify with Princess because she
works hard, she‘s very studious.
and she has to watch her weight."
-—-Rene’e McGau

    

NA BLOOM

’lN‘H Hi.




NEW YORK MAGAZINE - I‘Iarch 21, 19

00
00

'
OF WEST 82Nl ST. -

PHIL CAIDIN AND HIS FINE FEATHERED FRIENDS

 

BY PATRICIA MORRISROE

I

HE WINTER WINDS WHIPPED 3

across the Hudson, turning
Riverside Park into a frozen
tundra. Phil Caidin, armed
with just a cage and a hand-
ful of peanuts, was standing
under a tree, silent as a mime. He was

I
l
i
I

I
i

i

waiting for the Amazon. He had been 3
pursuing it every day for a month, getting j

up each morning at ﬁve and sometimes ‘

staying in the park until the sun set. Peo—
ple thought he was crazy, but Phil knew
better. He was a man with a mission, like
Captain Ahab.

“With the wind-chill factor, it was
sometimes ten, twenty below zero in the
park,” says Phil. “There were times when
I didn’t think I’d make it. But then I’d

 

spot the Amazon, and my heart would i

start racing and my breathing would
quicken, and I’d be consumed by some-
thing almost primitive.”

Finally, Phil and the Amazon had their
ultimate showdown—Phil calls it a “mir-
acle capture”-——near the boat basin at
79th Street. “It went there every night to
sleep,” says Phil. “Like Dracula return-
ing to his cofﬁn. Gangrene had already
set in. Its feet were black and practically
falling off. . . . Want to take a look?”

Phil pulls a photograph down from his
mantel. It’s difficult to see the gangrene
because the Amazon is a parrot, and its
feet are no bigger than the tip of a foun-

 

 

tain pen. But I try to look sympathetic.
Phil loves God’s little creatures. Some ;
might say he loves them more than he
should, but if Phil isn’t going to save a

parrot with gangrene, who is? “I’ve got a
little niche carved out for myself,” he
says.

Phil has spent the past 33 yearstracking
down lost or wounded birds, dogs, cats,
and even a gerbil. He does it seven days a
week. “He’s deﬁnitely a very unusual
person,” says Dr. John Kullberg, presi-
dent of the ASPCA. “I’ve known him to
walk all the way across town to bring us
an injured squirrel. I don’t think he cares

much for people, but he would die for an ‘

animal.”
Phil says his “capture rate” is about 90
percent and that nobody “in the civilized

world” has a better record. “Birds are the J
t on vacation. So he had to take Quakie to

most difﬁcult,” he says. “You have to be
a combination hit man and Perry Mason
to ﬁgure out their MD.”

Take Quakie, for example. Phil chased ‘

the parakeet through Riverside Park
for several weeks. “The bird had a range
of about a half-mile,” Phil says. “From
72nd to 82nd Street.” Phil discovered
that Quakie’s favorite food was crab ap-
ples, so he had to “effectively eliminate
its food supply.” He did this by removing
every crab apple from every tree between
72nd and 82nd Streets. “And I mean ef-
fectively,” Phil says.

Phil collected the apples and put them
in front of a cage. And then he waited.

But Quakie wouldn’t go near the apples.

Then Phil spotted the problem. A

woman—“the neighborhood trouble-
maker”—was laying out cooked carrots f
iPopeye, too; all his strength seems to
: come from his chest and arms. The veins

and peanuts for Quakie. “She was doing
it just to spite me,” Phil says. “For a

PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK MAIMAN

 

 

 

 

 

 

while, she was telling everyone I was
keeping pigeons in my bathtub and eat-
ing them for dinner.” Well, Phil got so
mad, he chased the woman through the
park with a hammer. “This cop said,
‘Hey, drop your weapon,’ ” Phil says.
“But I told him, ‘This woman is prevent-
ing me from my duty—catching that
bird.’ ”

Phil eventually caught Quakie, al-
though it wasn’t too keen on being in-
side the cage. “She flopped on her back
and started to scream,” says Phil, “and
then she went into cardiac arrest.” Phil
went on a wild chase through the city try-
ing to ﬁnd a bird doctor, but they were all

the emergency ward at the Animal Medi-
cal Center; it received oxygen treat-
ment and, after four days’ rest, was re-
leased in Phil’s care.

Today, they are living together in Phil’s
tiny studio on West 82nd Street. At pres-
ent, the bird’s Sitting on Phil’s head, his
silver hair forming a nest. Quakie gives
me a couple of unfriendly looks. “Para-
keets are very furtive, secretive crea-
tures,” Phil says. “I call them cats
of the sky.”

HIL, WHO IS 63,15 WEARING A
gray sweater decorated with
ducks. He is nearly six feet
tall, with a round face that re-
sembles Popeye’s, and a pow-
erful build. He walks like

 




ﬂ 4 ‘
3%? 3:124

153,.

 

 

 




although he almost killed himself doing
it. “I fell through the ice about 80 feet
from shore,” he says.

And where’s the duck now?

Phil picks up the phone, dials a num-
ber, and hands me the receiver. “Ask
Mary,” he says.

“Hello, Mary,” I say. “So how’s the
duck?”

in Phil’s legs are badly swollen, and
sometimes his feet won’t fit into his
shoes. When that happens, he wears his ~
bedroom slippers outside. “He walks ev-
erywhere with those bad legs,” says Dr.
Kullberg. “I don’t know how he does it.”

But Phil, with his windburned com-
plexion, looks pretty healthy. He’s like an
old, salty sea captain‘ who has spent his
life searching for adventure and now “Why, the duck is wonderful,” says
spins tall tales about sharks and tidal 3 Mary. “It’s living on my farm in
waves and beautiful women in foreign f Connecticut and is really happy and
ports. “Did I ever tell you the story about I healthy.”
the duck?” he asks. This is Phil’s most “See,” says Phil afterI’m off the phone,
famous rescue; he even got coverage on “I just don’t ﬁnd these animals. I make
the local news. sure they’re matched up with good peo-

In 1983, Phil was walking around Cen- ple. There’s nothing worse than having a
tral Park lake when he noticed a white bad home.”
Peking duck on the loose. Since the duck Phil speaks from experience. His
couldn’t fly, and it wasn’t used to being mother left him when he was an adoles-
outside, Phil was afraid it would be at- cent—“She ran off with the super”—and
tacked by animals or captured and eaten he was sent to the Hebrew Orphan Asy-
by humans. “First, I had to gain its trust,” lum. “My father enlisted in the Army,”
says Phil. He did this by spending every
night in the park for around three
weeks—quacking.

Phil says the Parks Department had
banned him from the area, so he had to

 

 

g and I didn’t have any brothers or sisters.”
5 Phil went to DeWitt Clinton High School.
ibut he was kept back three times. “I
played hooky for a year and a half,” he
sneak in, carrying wine-soaked bread to says. “I didn’t go anywhere—just stayed
slow the duck down. When that didn’t in my room.” He never made any friends.
work, Phil asked a friend who owned a I “I’m not sure why,” he says. “Maybe I
kayak to go out on the lake in search of didn’t have enough self-esteem. I was al-
the duck. Eventually, Phil got the duck, f ways a loner.”

—

that day on, I vowed to do penance for: remove the open packets of rat poison l

my sins.” .
Phil became totally devoted to nonhu- l
mans. He did volunteer work for a radio 5

that were left in Riverside Park “for chil- l
dren to eat.” “I’m starting to care about ?

show called Vets and Pets and s ent most 3’ h ' ' ’ '
of his freehtimle; trdacking down diher peo- l fouurggnmfiﬂiagggugh ammals, 1V6 1
p es missmg ir 5. But Phil still does ’

Eventually, be expanded his rescue op- friends. Nine years Iagtollallfs (Wheels:
eration to include other animals. His j placed in a nursing home, and he now I
fame grew to such an extent that people I lives alone. He visits her once a week l
on the. Lpper West Side started dropping l “It’s the least I can do,” he says. He used i
T0338 in his mailbox, such as “Dear Phil, j to smuggle a parakeet into her room un-
dSway my‘Apagakeet flew out the wm- l til the authorities told him to stop. “My
ca tit. .d th 1313 two hours, Phil had ; wife loved that parakeet,” Phil says.

pl re ’t e ir . . ,. l When he’s not roaming the city parks,
Phil flan rescul: every animal,, says l Phil watches nature shows on TV and ,
G d.” Hm not a ounty hunter. Im not reads Natural History magazine and lis-
Qo . e once made a quick run .out to tens to a tape of Richard Harris reading -‘
thueens when someone tipped him off 3 Ionathan Livingston Seagull on one side, i

at a junkie was abusmg some dogs and l with the score to Born Free on the other =
cats. With the help of the junkie’s sister, ; He frequently goes to an art gallery on l
tlyxét:€gi',abbed them and got the hell out of 5 the East Side that specializes in animal l

. portliéfnts. “It’s the only one like it in the
* wor ,” sa 5 Phil. He lives ve si '
Y HIS LATEST ESTIMATES, PHIL a rent-conllrolled apartment tliyat Egg/d1];
has saved 82 birds, 70 cats, in need ofa fresh coat ofpaint. The walls E
and twenty-dogs. including a are decorated with animal pictures——
poodle with psychological l leopards, lions, ducks, and Mickey and
problems, a German shep- | Minnie Mouse. He can use only metal I
,. herd With a bad “chewing 1 frames because the birds peek at the?
problem, and Aurora, a dog that looks ‘ wooden ones. '
like a fox. Phil is particularly proud of his I
work in getting the Parks Department to

l For dinner, Phil usually eats matzoj

 

 

 

 

At eighteen, he joined the Army Air
Corps. He never saw combat and never
got beyond the rank of corporal. “I was
there for three years and four months,
and that was enough,” says Phil. He went

 

to New York University on the GI Bill
E and majored in sociology. “I never really
‘ wanted to work,” he says. “I just wanted
to marry a rich woman.”

He met his wife at a dance, and they
were married a month later. She wasn't
rich, but she had a job and there was
enough money for Phil to pursue his ac-
tivities, which mostly consisted of “chas—
ing women.” In order to bring in some
extra cash, Phil appeared as a contestant
on a few quiz shows—Winner Take All,
Tic Tac Dough. “I won a trip to Spain,"
he says, “but I never went.” At times, he
tried to reform and be faithful to his wife.
but he says he couldn’t stop cheating and
loaﬁng around.

 

he says. “He couldn’t take care of me,

soaked in water and egg. or maybe a can of .‘ ch

Phil says his life would have gore
on like this, except for one event
that changed everything: In 1955,.his p.
Sakeet flew out of the window. ‘
divine intervention goes. that do:
lsound like much. But for Phi’. it
lwas the equivalent of Saint Paul's * "Q
lblinded by the light on the road t: I70

mascus. “I left that window ope: " Phi
lsays, “and that parakeet probabj.‘ 52'.
l because of my insensitive behavi.-.:. From

1

-'~.~

, soup. He occasionally earns a little money
1 by walking other people’s dogs but usually
” ives it awa to animal or ' '
people more, he says. “I’m a different ’ is the Nortyh American igblrialgggcsl’.slgll:ll
. says he would like to become a wildlife
specialist, but he’s 63, with bad veins, so
l it’s doubtful that will happen. He’s cur-
l rently looking for a home for Quakie. be-
cause parrots can live for 30 years or more
and Phil doesn’t think he’ll last that long.
l “I’d love to keep her,” he says,
wouldn’t be fair.”

“but it just

Phil never knows when he’ll be

called for duty. Whenever there’s an
animal in trouble, he miraculously shows
I up, like Superman. Two weeks ago, he
f was walking down the street and disc0v-
ered two pigeons that had just been hit
by a car. “One broke its wing and the
other was suffering from brain damage."
. says Phil. He rushed the birds home.
l where he nursed them, and later tried to
3 ﬁnd good homes for them.

“Who in the world would want a brain-

damaged pigeon?” I ask.

Phil can’t believe his ears. He pulls out a

letter from a woman in New Jersey thank-
; ing him for the pigeons and a copv of the
lonathan Livingston Seagull tape. She
says one bird had to be put to sleep, but
‘ the other is getting stronger every day.
“Every living thing deserves a ﬁghting
ance,” says Phil.

 

 

 




SOUTH
FLORIDA
MAGAZINE

March 1988

X?

Ever Dream of Having a Private Zoo?
A Visit to A Backyard Menageri

By J.P. Faber ‘
Photographs by Bill Wax

It’s two in the morning and the boys

are carrying white buckets of meat into the backyard. The
night is ﬁlled with what sounds like a convention of chain saw operators. But

these growls are coming from biological engines, namely the throats of some very big cats.

The cats are nocturnal eaters and this is their favorite dinner time. So the boys have stayed
up to be with their animals, to be in sync with their rhythms. This is when the fresh meat
comes out, full bowls are pushed through the cage slots. It’s when the cats raise their purring—yes,

this ripping sound is purring—to the level of a roar.

Welcome to the home of Marc Pearlman, and brothers Gene and Geoff Erskine. Here, in the space of
your average backyard, is a jungle of cages occupied by tigers, leopards, panthers, jaguars, ocelots, a lion,
a bear, monkeys, dogs, hunting owls and assorted other species, rare and common. This is their private zoo.

 




 

7.1 .
4 'h‘ ‘ ' .
an r‘ .4"
. ' Alp“

a: “ " Y? .
'u.» .Pv' ;

WT: m ea? ‘
‘1

EN?

: «4%

A .‘m,

 




Geoff Erskine, arcrlman and Gene Ers
a wall full of K001 and the Gang music awards.

The outside of the federally’licensed
Erskine/Pearlman zoo looks like any
other home in this quiet north Dade
neighborhood. It is not an expensive
neighborhood, but a neatly kept one.
Like some of the other homes, the 200’s
front yard is shady and there is a swing
on the porch. Only the names on the
mailbox give away the secret.

Inside the house, there are two motifs:
animal and music album. Some walls are
floor to ceiling with records (there are
12,000 albums in the house), and framed
on the other walls are the gold and platir
num records of K001 and the Gang—
Pearlman has been correspondence man,
ager for the pop band for 16 years, and
the group keeps its trophies at the zoo.
Everthing else is animal motif, almost ex'
clusively wild cat, from the lionsvandv
tigers~andabears wallpaper to the jaguar
pattern of the seat fabric.

The boys like to burn incense to cover
the occasional aromatic reminder that
there are scores of animals living here, but
it’s hardly necessary. The house is kept
meticulously clean, as are the cages, part

'~-.i\

kine pose wth freindly cat from the backyard. Behind them,

of the discipline the boys maintain—like
sleeping to the rhythm of the cats. What
is quickly apparent is that Marc Pearlman
and the Erskine brothers live for their
animals.

“I don’t see the need to make things
convenient to me,” says Marc. “They
want to eat at two in the morning, so
that’s when they eat. And we don’t have
to feed the cuts of meat we do. But this
is total commitment and dedication. Our
love for these animals is so all’encomv
passing that everything else takes a back
seat.”

The animals appreciate it. Very much.
Most of them would not be alive if it
weren’t for these urban zoo keepers, who
have made it a habit to save abused wild
animals and to rear wild cat cubs which
are overbred in public zoos and would
otherwise be destroyed.

The 20 or so cats—plus three baboons,
two Egyptian owls, one bear cub and
numerous dogs—live in the backyard.
Every animal has a cage, with lots of male
and female pairings. Bose speakers fill the
yard with the lilt of New Age jazz, which

the cats prefer to classical, rock or reggae
music. They may be the most pampered

animals in the world.

The members of K001 and the Gang,
who recorded Celebrate, She’s Fresh, Get
Down On It and numerous other hit
songs, know this. They spend weekends
here. They call it their tropical paradise,
their shrine. They come here spend to
time with the beasts.

“K001 and the Gang have no fear at
all of these animals,” says Marc. “Every
time you look out they’re in the cages
with the tigers and leopards. They say
that they feel better after they’re with tht
animals, more relaxed.”

So do other visitors to the zoo, incl
ing celebrities such as Michael, ~lane .313
Latoya Jackson; the Manhattans; Tm cloc-
Snow; Donna Summer and Jimmy Cliff.
among others.

“I don’t want to sound Eastern, but a
lot of the peOple say they derive an inner
peace from the animals,” Marc says. At
the very least, there is nothing like having
a leopard the size of a Harley Davidson
lick your arm and nu::le you.

 




”M

“These animals all have their dignity,”
says Geoffrey. “In zoos, they die of depres
sion. People make fun of them. They have
no physical contact. If you can keep them
happy, they stay healthy, and these are
all very healthy animals.” In the average
zoo, animals have a lifespan of eight to
10 years. At the Erskine/Pearlman 200,
the animals live twice that long.

I I I

How the Erskine/Pearlman zoo got to
its present location is a story that began
years ago in Rochester, New York, where
Marc, Geoff and Gene were childhood
pals. All three youngsters were fascinated
by animals. Marc even bred guinea pigs
for special physical traits. When they grew
up, they kept their day jobs—which inr 7 . j _ ,_ ,. ,1 :2. p .
cluded Marc’s gig with K001 and the ~- =‘ , , 7 if 3: "’ if.

Gang—“bl” applied for and gm 3 fem The zoo’s two Egyptian Eagle owls perpetually scowl; Olivia the

license to buy, breed, keep and sell ex' baboon tries to groom a stranger.
otic animals.

“When I was a child I was into animals,
heavily,” says Marc, a short man with in;
tense, black eyes and a round, friendly
face. “It basically became a feline fascina«
tion. There’s a similarity between all
felines, from lions to cats, their natures
are identical. And their mystique has
always fascinated me.”

Pearlman and the Erskines got their
permit a decade ago and three years later
they came to South Florida. They came
for the weather—cats live much longer in
warm climes—and because Florida’s laws
were kinder to private collectors. Their
mission was to create a private zoo for
educational purposes “to enlighten and
sensitize the public to the needs of wild—
life,” says Marc. Since then, the zoo has
conducted numerous presentations at
area schools, decrying the slaughter of
wild animals for pleasure, fur coats or
trophies. Usually they bring one of the
tigers to illustrate their point. They also
let their cats appear for “ecologically
sound” endorsements—usually public
services promoting animal rights.

“\When we moved into this neighbor;
hood, the neighbors thought the Ad
dams family had arrived,” Marc says.
“Now they love us. When friends or relav
tives come to the neighborhood, they
have a free attraction.”

The zoo is filled to capacity, with cages
on every square foot. The zoo keepers [>

 




are unable to turn down any donation
from a collector who wants a good home
for a beloved animal he can’t keep, or any
hard luck case.

Take Smokey Joe, for instance, a tiger
native to a China. The Erskine/Pearlman
zoo got him a couple of years ago. He
was a violent, abused animal that was to
be put to sleep. His condition was similar
to that of many exotics the zoo keepers
come across: the sloughedvoff toy of the

'spoiled rich.

“I have people ringing me up every 15
minutes saying they’ll pay anything to get
a lion, so they can put a gold and dia’
mond chain around it and walk down
the street and pick up girls,” says Marc.
“Then they forget about the animal, and
start to mistreat it.” Such was Smokey
Joe’s case.

“You could see his ribs sticking out. He
was obviously abused. He tried to kill any
person who came near him,” Marc says.
“Now he’s the most domesticated animal
we have. Now my mother takes him for
walks around the neighborhood.”

Pearlman spent weeks sleeping outside
Smokey’s cage after he arrived. He put
the cat on a special diet and spent time

1.:
if ‘
'..I
.‘3.
'ti

' i
l.
4'

Gene caresses the legally extinct
Amurs.

talking to the animal. Finally, when Marc
felt he had created a bond, the zoo keeper
took his chance. “I said a prayer and went
into the cage. He was an angel. So 1 put
a leash on him to take him for a walk.
He started to growl, and I thought, ‘1

might die, plenty of people do.‘ But then
we started, and it was OK.”

Now Smokey Joe is a chubby, lolling,
affectionate softy, who licks the arms of
strangers and loves to play with the boys.
Like the other cats, Smokey is declawed,
because even the friendliest cat can cut
you by accident. “If they’re not declawed,
you can get hurt just from playing with
them,” says Geoff. “They love to hug you
and roll around. With claws they can serv
iously hurt you without meaning to.”

I I I

\What would the day be without roll,
ing around with the huge cats, each one
with its own personality? then Geoff is
on a routine check of the cages. each
animal demands play. There’s Belle, a
beautiful white'chested Indian tigress. She
moans until Geoff goes into the cage and
strokes her stomach. “She starts to cry
whenever you stop playing with her,” he
says. “She also cries at night if you don’t
leave a night light on.”

A few feet away, Chutney. a black jag—
uar, is snoozing in the sun. “\Vhen she
wants to keep playing, she doesn't let you
leave. She just takes her paw and forces

Continued on page 134

you back in.

 




l
l
l
l

l

ZOO STORY

Continued from page 76

She’s the strongest animal here, pound
for pound,” says Geoff, who has entered
her cage to pat her sleepy head. “Jaguars
fear nothing.”

Felicity the lioness, in the next cage,
stands her full height and growls for at—
tention. She is only two years old
adopted as a cub to save her from being
destroyed, but already she is huge. Her
head alone is the size of a living room
bean bag chair. She stands erect and rubs
the length of her golden body against the
chain'link fence. Geoff does not feel like
wrestling with Felicity this round, especiv
ally when he sees that in the next cage
Teddy the bear has ﬁgured out how to
bend back a piece offence, which he does
in between nipping his cellmate, Tony the
tiger.

“You guys are real trouble, you know
that?" Geoff says, squatting inside the
cage to fix the bent wire.

The rest of the zoo reveals a collection
of idiosyncracies. Each cage holds a new
personality. Next to Tony’s cage is a
friendly, wrinkled Chinese Shar Pei, a
sort of canine Yoda, who is the mother
of five Shar Peis bred for Janet Jackson—a
miniature Jackson Five. Next to Belle’s
cage are the cages for the mandrill bar
boons, including Manny, an adult male

, with bright blue and red patches in his

fur. Manny likes to collect tags from the
backs of shirts: Visitors offer their necks

i and he does the tearing. Next to him

Olivia the baboon waits to lure an unsus—
pecting female to her clutches. She is terr
ribly jealous of female humans, and will
wimper imploringly and outstrech her
hand until she can seize women visitors
and pull them in for a quick bite.

In one cage there are four servals,
African cats the size of small dogs with
faces like demons, pink—dabbled snouts
and forked tongues that lash out when
they hiss, which they do frequently. Then
there are the Geoffroys cats from Bolivia
—Zinger, Harambee and Khalidah, wild
jungle cats that look, by and large, like
domestic house cats. The zoo keepers are
quick to point out, however, that these
cute tabbies can take down a Doberman

. pinscher. W hen they open their mouths,

a low roar comes out, as though Morris
had been possessed by the devil during
a cat food commercial. “Their strength

E is unbelievable. They’re not lap animals.

i
l

They don’t like to be petted. It takes four

 




      
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

  
 

    

people to hold one down to give it a shot.
They are like flying razors,” says Geoff.

Nearby are a pair of very serious look
ing Egyptian eagle owls, predators with
wide, gold—rimmed eyes and truculent
beaks. They presented a moral problem
to the zoo keepers, since their diet re;
quires live meat, such as baby chicks. The
boys tried strips of chicken, but when the
birds started to starve, they gave in and
fed them properly. Now they have slowly
weaned the birds so that they will eat pre»
frozen chicks.

Two of the most beautiful cats are
Nakita and Boris, a teenage pair of Amur
leopards, a species from Manchuria. They
are reddish brown and spotted, with long
tails that drag on the ground behind
them. \While the two are alive, and are

to be mated, they are technically an ex— .

tinct species, since there are less than a
dozen of these leopards left in the world.
“We’ve been offered fortunes for these
animals by the big zoos,” says Gene. “But
we couldn’t give them up. They’ll be hap'
pier here.”

Cagemates Teddy the bear and Tony

 

the tiger: Tails of two species.

You might wonder how these animals
stay so happy, packed into their north
Dade backyard. Sure, they have good
food, good music and good friends (all
the makings of a beer commercial), but
what about open space to run around in?

“Open space for a cat is a myth,” says
Marc. “Cats in the wild sleep 22 hours
a day and they like to live in caves. Here,
no matter how large a cage we give them
—and ours are twice the legal federal size
—they spend 99 percent of the day in the
smallest space available.”

“My basic philosophy as a breeder and
a human is that if you’re not happy,
you’re not healthy,” he says. “We brush
the animals every day, that’s why they
are happy. \V'e use hot water when we
clean them. We do things that earn our—
selves a reputation as fanatics. And we
have a very low rate of illness here, which
tells you something.”

Still, Pearlman and the Erskines realize
that their zoo days are finite in the pre

sent location. Not because of their neigh'
bors—the guy next door gets insomnia
whenever it’s too quiet and can’t sleep
unless the cats are growling. There is
simply no more room. The boys themv
selves are running out of living space——
inside is where the baby cats are raised.
sleeping at night on the waterbeds.
So the boys have begun to search for
several acres in south Dade, and for ﬁnan—
cial backers, in order to set up a larger
zoo that will be semi’public. The idea is
to promote public education via limited
tours for school children and \yi’lPs.
Outside funding is needed, because the
boys have spent virtually every cent—
both from Pearlman’s position wi h the
band and from a carpet business which
the Erskines run—feeding the cats. “Kool
and the Gang will not even give me cash
bonuses anymore, because they know it

$‘

will be spent on the cats. says Marc. “So
they give me elaborate gifts instead. But
as expensive as it is to feed the animals,
they feed me, with their beauty and

sincerity.” _.




........w..mﬁm9w A...”

S
d
m
l
S
I
W
n
Cu
M
Q
_

J1
aw
.4

3

U.
TL
IV
TL
6
OO
00

2. . .2“. a
.. . a 1.7
. ....?....x41. .3 1%
I}. § \ e... .. a
.,;._.....,m$_..t/.Mﬁ\a.. .

.ﬁ. ..
‘bamfu‘ﬁ .w
4 u......._........ .. . ...

.w.
. t

a». ..

h. .s

 




REAT CLAW MARKS, THE HALF-
healed scars left by ancient

.S. F OreSt Servlce ls I i ‘ glaciers, run from northwest to

southeast across Chichagof Is-
" f ’ 3;; - ; land, which is part of the for—
_. . , ; ested archipelago that sprawls

- , - 7 , ; f I.) along the Alaska Panhandle.

A ‘ One of the marks is a narrow.

supposed to pl eserve and i ”1,”, i steep-walled slash that nearly
, 1 g . : .1 ~ ﬂ . cuts the island in half. For 25 miles, over north- ~

" I 7 ' west Chichagof, the glacial scar is a ﬁord called

;_ the Lisianski Inlet. Then, where a band of

. ., - Ii . if j .' tougher rock resisted the grinding of the ice, this

i ' ‘ claw mark emerges from below sea level and
continues for about six miles as a narrow, heavi-

ly wooded upland valley.

That upland valley is part of the huge Ton-
gass National Forest, the last largely untouched
rain forest in either of the world’s temperate
zones. It is a lovely, roadless place, a wilderness
in all but ofﬁcial designation. The small, braided
channels of the Lisianski River, which runs
down the valley ﬂoor to the inlet, cut through
stands of huge Sitka spruce, ancient trees six to
eight feet in diameter near their base that top
out at 160 to 175 feet. Stupendous numbers of
pink salmon spawn in the Lisianski, which is
one of the major producers of Southeast Alas-
ka‘s $75 million annual salmon catch. So many
Dolly Varden char live in this river that to catch
a 15—incher on each of half a dozen consecutive
casts is too commonplace to bother bragging
about.

Enormous Alaska brown bears, outsized
coastal grizzlies, rumble about this small valley,
——————-w—————_

THE LEVELING OF 400-YEAR-OLD SPRUCES
LEAVES HARMFUL HOLES IN THE TONGASS

KAREN JETTMAH

M
.;:’$“~"
v

>4 a. ; _ .f. ' .. 45m. 5 V‘ ' ‘.~;
* , r . ‘ .h ,T‘ 1‘ .7 l' ' . l' ' x '
.n ~ g; ‘ ‘.- J ‘ . . .1 ._ , 3 ‘ '
u " r ._ ~ «, _ _ ,- . _\ _ ,_ :4‘- .
g, 9.1-!“ ~. \ ._ '. ~ ‘1, . 1 . ~ g. ~ .:
4, J, <: Q . . ,~ . . . . '
.. ;_; . . . , , _ _ , - . ;, g
a ., ",‘ .. .-‘ ‘f‘, ~" .- .~
i‘ . . ‘1 ‘ 5'. , \ . ;

 




FOREST SERVICE

eating salmon and getting bigger. Bald
eagles patrol the inlet. Sitka black-
tailed deer hold conventions here, and
for citizens of nearby Pelican (pop.
276)—commercial ﬁshermen stretch—
ing their family food budgets through
the lean months—a morning of hunt-
ing the Lisianski drainage is a trip to
the meat market. Hunters in Southeast
Alaska are permitted to take six deer a
year, and somebody has estimated—
maybe exaggerating, maybe not—that
30% of the red meat consumed there is
Sitka black-tailed deer.

If you want to see this rare, small
valley, don’t lollygagl The odds are
high that the best of it soon will be
scraped bare again. This time the inex-
orable grinding force will not be a gla-
cier but the Industrial Bank of Japan,
with invaluable help from its loyal ally,
the US. Forest Service.

Alaska is a state unlike any other,
and its singularity means that environ-
mental messes there seem exotic, not
much related to the ones folks in the
Lower 48 create. In the case of the Li-
sianski woodlands, some of the things
that have gone sour, such as a pair of

JOHN SCHOEN

50-year bargain-basement pulpwood
contracts and the $2 value currently
assigned to giant 400-year-old trees
(more on these matters later), are as
Alaskan as the humpback salmon. But
the larger part of the blame in this case
lies with the chronic malfeasance of
the Forest Service. a bureaucratic coral
colony that has long since stopped
faithfully serving the forests, or even
the timber industry. It seems commit-
ted to nothing except its own steady
growth.

The Forest Service’s proposed
trashing of the Lisianski Inlet is worth
a hard look because it is representative
of what is happening in the rest of the
country: America’s 156 national for-
ests, an invaluable and irreplaceable
resource .covering 191 million acres,
are being mismanaged as tree factories

by the Forest Service, the huge and ob-
stinate bureaucracy that is supposed to
preserve them (see box, page 86).
Warning: Little that follows makes
what is usually thought of as sense.
The attack on the Lisianski woodlands
and the rest of the Tongass is so hard to
comprehend because it is not one of
those assaults that‘s dim-witted from
an environmental viewpoint but is
drearily justiﬁable as a short—term
dollars—and-cents proposition. No. the
proposed wreckage of the Lisianski
and the circumstances that surround it
are both environmentally destructive
and unfathomable from the perspec-
tive of straightforward. bottom-line
greed. The Forest Service‘s record in

-———————-’WMr-—'—_———

BLACK-TAILED DEER, NOW PLENTI-
FUL, NEED THE TREES TO THRIVE

J,“
i
‘ “ﬁr :

 




JOHN SCHOEN

4i i .r-.’-'. :53
W 1 rﬂ|“h,'ﬂvﬁ‘a

‘3‘}!th T’ 1% a x

4‘ “'31! (WV-1'9 ~.-yp~:s.~,¢ . .

Southeast Alaska and the damage it is
still trying to do there are so bizarre
that an observer draws back periodi-
cally and shakes his head to clear the
fog. You don‘t have to be an environ—
mentalist—just a taxpayer—to ask
why the Forest Service is doing this.
Where is the gain?

Those are good questions. better
than any answers found in a year of
traveling and reading and listening to
foresters, sawmill operators and envi-
ronmentalists. Committees in both
houses of the US. Congress have also
investigated the strange. wasteful be-
havior of the Forest Service in the
Tongass. Their answers, too, are more
peculiar than convincing. In any
case—uh, just a minute. . . .

This writer, who lives in New Hamp-
shire, switches oﬁ his computer and
picks up his work gloves. He is pro-
ceeding simultaneously with two tasks,
the construction of this article and the
splitting of eight cords of wood to heat
his house. Whenever a paragraph
seizes up, like the transmission of his
old logging truck, he whacks. at the
woodpile with a splitting maul for half
an hour or so, until the fashioning of

s- '53,

. ,Qw .. 3.;
"it ﬁx‘kiff-Ltvﬁ

English prose seems much the easier
chore.

The writer works at all of his articles
in this way and mentions it here only
to establish that he knows ﬁrewood,
two-by-fours, four-by-eight sheets of
5Ag—inch exterior grade plywood and the
like all come from trees, but only if
someone cuts down the trees. The writ-
er has noticed that his city friends all
think that his wood-splitting is worthy
and noble, but they invariably wince
when he fells a tree. These city friends
are tree-huggers. which is exactly what
the hard-hatted Tongass timber
beasts, with their 36—inch chain saws,
call the writer when he goes to Alaska.

O.K., that’s another week’s worth of
BTUs split and stacked. Change to dry
shirt. Where was 1?

According to careful Forest Service es-
timates. 26 million board feet of lum—
ber—almost all of it old-growth, high-
volume Sitka spruce, although there is
some mountain hemlock mixed in—
may he cut in the Lisianski' tract. That
is 5.7% of the 450 million board feet
from the Tongass that the Forest Ser—
vice claims it is obligated by law to pre-
pare and offer for sale each year, or

n1

.vw'vé: Vi:

,.,,. .63.,

.. e nhﬁiﬂz‘h’vg ”35.1.,” 7"00 3")"
. . ‘ .

r:- MWWW r :,

minut-

OLD GROWTH (LEPT) CAN SUPPORT
LIFE, BUT SECOND GROWTH CAN’T
——————-——MA~

 

about what might be felled in a week in
the Tongass during the summer cut-
ting season. The trees are giant, ﬁne—
grained patriarchs, many of which
were mature before the US. Constitu-
tion was signed. Powerful environ-
mental reasons exist for not cutting
them. An untouched, old-growth forest
is not merely a stand of trees with an
animal population, but an enormously
complex and delicate organism, con-
sisting of trees, other plants, animals.
water, sunlight, atmosphere and ﬂows
of thermal and chemical energy.

Wait a minute, thinks a man who
knows tree-hugging when he sees it.
Never mind that sentimental stuﬂ”
about “ﬁne-grained patriarchs.“ Let‘s
hear about those 26 million board feet
of Sitka spruce. That’s prime timber,
right?

It sure is, suitable for ﬁne furniture,
guitars and piano sounding boards.

So a lot of money is involved?

The answer is an emphatic yes-and-
no. The spruce is prime, but not much
of it will be used as high quality saw-
logs. Almost all of it will be fed into

 

 

 




   
    
        
     
   
   

 

......

FOREST SERVICE
chippers at the Alaska Pulp Co. mill in
Sitka. The mill is owned andus-
trial Bank of Japan. Lest xenophobia
be suspected, it should be noted that
the Louisiana-Paciﬁc Co., a true-blue
American outﬁt, owns a second Alas-
kan pulp mill, in Ketchikan, into
which Tongass old-growth timber is
also fed. But by careful design, the ter-
ritories of these mills do not overlap,
and the Lisianski trees have been
promised to the Japanese.

O.K., forget guitars and pianos.
Aren't we still talking about big bucks?

Well, the problem is that the Sitka
and Ketchikan mills were set up in the
1950s to turn out cellulose for rayon
and cellophane. The Forest Service
had been trying unsuccessfully for
years to get a timber exporting busi-
ness going in Alaska. To lure wary
capital to the frozen North, the service
gave each mill owner its own sphere of
inﬂuence and a 50-year sweetheart
contract, guaranteeing ﬁre-sale stump-
age rates (the price of stand-
ing timber), with a lot of costs
absorbed by the government.

In 1980 a poorly drafted
federal bill, the Alaska Na-
tional Interest Lands Conser-
vation Act (ANILCA), made
the deal even cozier.
ANILCA directed the Forest
Service to give the two pulp-
wood companies a total of
$40 million a year in aid “or
whatever sums are neces-

JOHN SKOW

 

 

  

supply goal. Today, the expenditure,
which the service insists should not be
called a subsidy, runs about $62 mil-
lion per annum. Moreover, part of
the ANILCA deal was that Congress
agreed not to examine and approve
these costs every year, as it does other
federal expenditures. However. . . .

How could there be a however?

What happened was that rayon and
cellophane, hot items in the 19505.
turned out to be a wave of the past.
Petrochemical fabrics and plastics
have taken over. The Sitka mill has
lost nearly $100 million over the last
three years, or so its owners claim.
That could be creative accounting. but
the cellulose-based synthetics industry
may indeed be dying. Unless, of
course, the Chinese go for paper dia-
pers in a big way.

Huh?

Paper diapers are made out of cellu-
lose, and Alaska’s big market is the na-
tions of the Paciﬁc rim. Anyway, the
two Alaskan pulp mills yelled poor
mouth awhile ago, and the Forest Ser-

NWOHOS NHOF

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sary‘” to achieve the timber

 

 

 

    

AFTER THE FALL, TONGASS LOGS
END UP AT AN UNPROFITABLE MILL

AAAA
vvvv

vice dropped their stumpage price to
about $2 per 1,000 board feet.

How many board feet in one of
those big 400-year-old trees?

About a thousand, maybe two. On
the average, the US. Treasury gets
about $2 for an old-growth Tongass
spruce—~about the same as the price of
a DoveBar. ‘

So clear-cutting the Lisianski stand
will generate how much revenue for
the federal government?

Assuming that the valley is nearly
all spruce, about $65,000.

Well, that’s something.

Not really. Before the Forest Service
auctions a tract of national forest to be
logged, it does a lot of surveying and
mapping. It also builds such necessities
as loading docks, roads and barracks.
It may also throw in some nonnecessi-
ties. For example, in 1986, when the
service completed a $6.4 million log-
ging facility at Thorne Bay, on Alas-
ka’s Prince of Wales Island, it included
a ball ﬁeld covered with sod brought
up by barge from Seattle. None of this
is charged to the timber companies—
in accordance with ANILCA‘s provi-
sions—and if the loggers do any road
building. they are reimbursed. In fact.
the Forest Service builds more miles of
road than any highway department in
the US.

Sometimes, alas, the timber leases
that the service offers at auction don‘t
sell, though the government has spent
all that money on construction. The
taxpayers thus own a lot of roads in
Southeast Alaska that lead to nowhere.
And there’s a nifty new barracks in
Corner Bay on Chichagof Island. It
has a weight room. cable TV. . . .

I don’t think I want to hear this.

That‘s perfectly understandable.
Nobody uses the barracks, because
the townspeople at nearby Teneke
Springs went to court and stopped the
building of a road from Corner Bay to
their town—after the Forest Service
had completed 1 1 miles of it.

In all, the service maps and builds
roads in Southeast Alaskan forests

 

AGENCY MEN LIKE ROBERTS HEAR,
BUT RARELY HEED, PL'BLIC CRITICS

    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 

 

 




 

 

 

FOREST SERVICE

good for 450 million board feet of cut-
ting each year, even though these days
only about half of that is sold when it is
offered at auction. By last summer the
Forest Service had a six-year backlog
of unsold leases for mapped and road-
ed timber tracts.

You’ve gotta be kidding.

Anyway, according to the Forest
Service’s own ﬁgures, the roads in dif-
ﬁcult terrain like the Lisianski Inlet
usually cost from $150,000 to $250,000
a mile. That seems low, considering
the estimated 21 heavy-duty bridges
that will have to be built in the compli-
cated river-mouth area. But even using
the Forest Service’s ﬁgures, the nine
winding miles of road the roject re-
quires would cost from $1.3 ' lion to
$2.25 million.

So the US. Treasury, by way of the
Forest Service, pays the diﬂerence and
loses money?

Always, and lots of it. In 1983 the
service lost 91 cents on every dollar in-
vested in Southeast Alaska—if invest-
ed is the right word. In ’84 it lost 93
cents on each dollar. In ’85 and ‘86, 99
cents.

Does the Forest Service do this bad-
ly in the rest of the country?

Not quite. but the government does
lose $600 million a year on below-cost
timber sales across the country.

And the timber companies don’t
share in any of these costs?

Of course not. Otherwise they would
lose the money. In fact, because the
Alaska Pulp Co. claims it has lost
money over the last few years, it is su-
ing the federal government for more
than $80 million. Alaska Pulp wants to
be reimbursed.

Now you’re going to tell me there’s
an excuse.

What? Sorry, you’ve lost me.

There‘s always an excuse. You
know, the good reason that makes all
this craziness sensible.

Oh, sure. The Forest Service is very
big on what it calls “community stabil-
ity.” What it means by that is jobs for
loggers. Southeast Alaska used to have
about 3,000 logging jobs, but now, in a
sagging local pulp market. the number
is down to 1,800 or so, despite the sub-
sidies. The Forest Service provides—

 

 

 

SOME ALASKANS THINK OF MRAZEK
(D., N.Y.) AS THEIR CONGRESSMAN

AAAA
vvvv

directly or indirectly—about 1,400 of
those jobs. each of which, the Wilder-
ness Society once ﬁgured, costs the
taxpayers $36,000 a year. But that ﬁg—
ure is probably low.

Most of these are ﬁve-month-a—year
jobs, right?

Well, it snows quite a lot the rest of
the time.

So with the same $36,000, you could
send each lumberjack on a round-the-
world cruise every year, American
plan, or buy him a new pickup truck
and a snowmobile.

Why not?

Wait a minute. Do these ﬁgures in-
clude the people the Forest Service it-
self employs?

No, they‘re extra. Between 600 and
700 Forest Service staffers are assigned
to Southeast Alaska.

All working hard to lose 99 cents on
every dollar the government puts up?

Not at all. They manage the forests
and support the fragile economy of
Southeast Alaska. Or so they say.

OK, but if tree cutting is losing

money, and the pulp mills can’t make
money even though they buy the trees
for zilch, and if jobs are the only justiﬁ—
cation for the logging, then what we’ve
got is a big social project, with one For—
est Service social worker for every two
lumberjacks. Does this make sense?
Apparently it does to someone.
Steve Cowper, Alaska’s Democratic
governor, Ted Stevens and Frank
Murkowski, the state’s US. senators.
both Republicans, and Don Young.
another Republican who is its US.
representative, are all for the program.
Do I smell pork?

Whacking the Forest Service for ﬁscal
wastefulness is so satisfying that it is
easy to forget the harm its policies are
doing to the environment. It seems
certain that the agency is putting two
prosperous, tax-paying Alaskan indus-
tries, ﬁshing and tourism, at risk with a
doomed eﬂ‘ort to support the limping.
artiﬁcially created cellulose-pulp in-
dustry. However, lost dollars can be' re—
placed or done without; tourists can go
elsewhere if the woodlands are be-
fouled or game is too scarce: and ﬁsh
can be found in other seas if Alaska‘s
catch suﬁ‘ers too much from damage to
spawning streams caused by logging
and road construction projects. What
won‘t be replaced. at least until the
next glacial age has come and gone. is
the Tongass National Forest.

The environmental argument over
logging the Tongass whirls with num—
bers, beginning with the forests 16.8
million acres, which make it three
times the size of any other US. nation-
al forest. ANILCA set aside 5.4 mil-
lion of those acres as wilderness. The
timber industry makes much of its
“sacriﬁce” in giving up those 5.4 mil—
lion acres, especially now that other
timber-related provisions of ANILCA
are under ﬁre. Bills pending in both
houses of Congress would repeal provi-
sions that require the Forest Service to
spend $40 million annually to aid the
two Tongass pulp plants and to pre-
pare 450 million board feet of timber
for sale each year. The bills would also
reinstitute yearly congressional review
of costs and appropriations. Other bills
would undo the 50-year sweetheart
logging contracts.

What is really being fought over in

 

 

 




 

 

 

SOAH NHOI"

 

UVWIIB!‘ NSHVN

 

FOREST SERVICE

those legislative battles are not the 5.4
million acres of wilderness in the Ton-
gass, or the remaining 11.4 million
acres that are unprotected, but much
smaller stretches of old-growth forest.
Most of the Tongass is high rock and
ice, spectacularly beautiful but not
good for growing anything except li-
chens and mountain goats. The Forest
Service estimates that only 3.1 million
acres are suitable for timber harvest—
that is, the trees there are large enough
and abundant enough for logging.

But that doesn’t mean these areas
are accessible. What can be reached,
even with cost-is-no-object road-build-
ing programs, is just a fraction of the
3.1 million acres. It is this fact that
timber industry spokesmen refer to
when they pooh-pooh the fears of what
they always call “special-interest" en-
vironmentalists by saying that “15 mil-
lion of the 17 million acres of the Ton-
gass will never be logged.“

The only trees of interest to pulp or
sawlog operations are the old-growth
giants in stands that produce at least
30,000 board feet per acre. Today. af-
ter some 30 years of logging, perhaps
640.000 of these acres are left, of which
486.000 are scheduled for timber har-
vesting. These enormous old trees shel-
ter grizzlies, deer, pine marten and
bald eagles. They shade the spawning
beds of salmon. When they die, they
topple across streams and create pools
for trout.

To say that the animals need the
forest is to oversimplify. The great
trees and the small ones and mosses
and fungi and blueberries and ﬁsh and
mammals and birds and insects are the
forest. The Tongass is many ecosys-
tems ﬁtting together in ways that wild-
life biologists are only beginning to un-
derstand. But the big trees are the liv-
ing bones.

A decade or so ago, the term “bio-
logical desert” was in vogue in forestry
circles. It referred to a supposed condi-
tion in which the thick canopy of an
old-growth forest shuts off sunlight. so
that no smaller plants. and thus no

AAAA
vvvv

EAGLES NEST ATOP THE TONGASS’S
GIANT SHORESIDE TREES, WHILE
BROWN BEARS ENJOY ITS SALMON

 
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

herbivorous animals or carnivores that
ate the herbivores. can survive. This
notion ﬁt the Forest Service’s philoso-
phy, which held that managed forests
were good and that unmanaged ones
were something close to sinful. Man-
aged forests made better wood fac-
tories, so it was thought, because they
could be harvested on a rotation sched-
ule, which might be 100 years from
seedling to sawlog.

A 100-year rotation is what the For-
est Service wants to achieve for the
Tongass. Agency planners don’t have
much use for old-growth forests be-
cause, by deﬁnition, they aren’t man-
aged. It is no accident that the Forest
Service is a branch of the Department
of Agriculture; woodlands sometimes
seem to be regarded as not greatly dif-
ferent from ﬁelds of soybeans. Gifford
Pinchot. who established the Forest
Service in 1905. was a fervent utilitari-
an and a fervent adversary of John
Muir, founder of the Sierra Club. Pin-
chot believed that the natural world
existed for man to use. And “use” did
not mean holding a forest in reserve or
letting the natural balances of ﬂora
and fauna work themselves out. Use
meant thinning. reforesting. improv-
ing. It meant managing. which in turn
meant hiring. devising projects and se-
curing appropriations—the activities
of a healthy. swelling bureaucracy.

The differences between managed
and unmanaged woods become readily
apparent on an hour‘s walk with Matt
Kirchoff. a wildlife biologist for the

State of Alaska. We are in a suburb of

Juneau called Lemon Creek. Just be-
yond the last split-level is forest. It
looks terrible. Fifteen years ago the
forest was cut,.and now it has gone
back to alder. a scrubby tree that grows
so densely that neither man nor deer
can force passage through a thicket.
Our cut trail rises. and now we are

'in old growth that has never been

logged. The trees rise 150 feet or more.
but sunlight pours through holes in the
canopy where 50 or 100 years ago old
trees died and fell. Vegetation is every-
where in dozens of varieties. from the
low green plants that Kirchoﬁ points
out as deer food. to great. hanging
chunks of moss. to blood-letting devil‘s
club. to spruce seedlings growing on
the half-rotted fallen trunks of nurse

 

  

 




 

 

trees. Clear water, trout habi—
tat, winds its way down over
sandy gravel, dark humus,
water plants and a tangle of
fallen trees.

Then, in the space of a few
feet, we are in near darkness.
This tract was clear—cut 45
years ago, and now even-age
Sitka spruces have taken
over. They are healthy enough, about
50 feet tall, and the biggest trunks are
nine inches in diameter. But there is no
trace of the alder that must have cov-
ered the clear-cut, nor of any other
plant. Nothing but spruce needles is on
the forest ﬂoor. I had taken snapshots
in the old growth, but now there is no
light for photographs.

And none, of course, to grow fodder.

A section of this old clear-cut was ,
thinned about 25 years ago. but the =

canopy has closed again. This is a bio—
logical desert, a one—species eco-vacu-
urn. If the grove isn’t touched, no un-
derstory will develop until the trees are

SOCKEYE SALMON FLOURISH, AT LEAST FOR NOW

AAAA
vvvv

150 to 200 years old, when some will
begin to die and let in light. According
to one Forest Service manager, all the
woods 'at Lemon Creek need is a sec—
ond “precommercial thinning" to let
in enough light for wildlife. This ig-
nores the economic fact that the labor
costs of even one thinning far exceed
the market value of the trees, and the
environmental reality that the com-
plex, wildlife-nurturing understory of
' old-growth stand would only have
started to re-establish itself by the time
the trees were logged.

Does it matter if the Tongass is
turned into a tree factory?

 

At some point, the dwin-
dling supply of old growth
will seriously cut into wildlife
populations. Those cuts will
be permanent, because there
is no way—short of waiting
several hundred years—to
create more old growth. In
the meantime, logging and
road-building operations
put anything shootable in jeopardy.
The Tongass has a lot of grizzlies. but
not as many as it once had. because of
kills necessary to protect life and prop-
erty, and because of illegal kills by gun
toters who like large. dangerous tar—
gets. Many Alaskans think that having
fewer bears is just ﬁne. Says Sitka may-
or Dan Keck, “Logging hasn’t hurt
those damn bears a bit." But no one
really knows because baseline popula-
tion studies have never been done.

Eagles, sometimes called cannery
buzzards by locals when they are twit-
ting Sierra Clubbers. are protected by
federal law. Moreover, regulations for—‘J

3on1 NHor‘ ’

 

 

 

 

 




    
   
   
  
    
  
    
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
   
   
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

 

FOREST SERVICE

bid logging within 330 feet of eagle
nests, which are vast affairs built atop
huge old shoreside trees. But the fron—
tier mentality occasionally turns sep—
tic. Last year, wardens found the car-
casses of more than two dozen eagles

rotting on the garbage dump of a log-
ging camp on Prince of Wales Island.
The birds had been shot by someone
who resented regulations or federal of-
ﬁcials or eagles. The Forest Service
isn’t directly responsible for these dead
eagles or the lost grizzlies, but some
destruction of wildlife is a predict-

able result of timberland development.

The extent to which logging endan-
gers salmon spawning beds is in dis-
pute, largely because the service main-
tains that no damage is being done.
Bulldozers and skidders once raised
havoc by wallowing through spawning
gravel, and the logging of steep. unsta-

 

The Unkindest Cut

N OLD-GROWTH BUREAUCRACY, LIKE AN OLD-
growth forest, must be understood as a single,
highly complex organism. Nothing else makes
sense. The thing is alive and has motives, or at
least tropisms. A governmental bureaucracy is
by no means fully under the control of the peo-
ple at the top of its organiza '\ a] chart. Decisions that al-
low the organism to survive and grow are likely to ﬁnd sup-
port, and all others, even if they make perfect economic or
environmental sense to the outside world, will be resisted.

The US. Forest Service has a large headquarters in
Washington, DC, and nine regional divisions. It has more
than 30,000 employees. Its 156 national forests are run inde-
pendently through 1 19 administrative units. A brilliant and
devastating critique of the agency, Reforming the Forest Ser-
vice, by a forester and economist named Randal O’Toole,
shows how perverse and senseless policies like those at work
in the Tongass are in full leaf in virtually all national forests.

The agency earns $3 billion a year and spends $4 billion.
Its mismanagement of grazing, mining, water production
and timber accounts for most of the shortfall. Timber man-
agement. including a runaway road-building program. is
the biggest money loser. The Forest Service often sells leases
to timber tracts that cost more to survey and “preroad” than
the agency gets back for cutting rights. Subterfuges that
some would call bureaucratic scams are common. To get
good tracts, buyers must often cut virtually worthless tim—
ber, because the agency packages poor stands with good
ones. Then. typically, it invests in reforestation efforts that
only undermine the forest’s ecosystem.

 

AAAA
vvvv

THE CAHILLS VS. THE FOREST SERVICE IS NO CONTEST

 

MO'IlVIN N3Hd31$

 

Why reforest tracts that are not worth cutting? To plant
better trees, says the Forest Service. Maybe, says O’Toole,
but also because it is agency practice to return roughly 10%
of reforestation costs to regional ofﬁces and 5% to the
Washington headquarters as above-budget “general admin-
istrative funds,” which can be poured into new projects.
Books are cooked with timber-price forecasts that routinely
turn out to be wildly optimistic. These are used to justify ex-
pansive tree cutting and road building. Forest supervisors,
are pressured to set cutting targets that are economical};
and environmentally ruinous. and then are promoted on the
basis of how close they come to meeting the targets.

According to O’Toole, the trouble isn’t Forest Service col-
lusion with timber companies, or James Watt—style wilder-
ness trashing, or even the fact that most of the agency’s
brass was trained in forestry or engineering. not recreation
or wildlife biology. Rather, the Forest Service bureaucracy
is simply doing what bureaucracies do best, which is get big-
ger by maximizing their budgets.

The way Forest Service rules work against common sense
can be seen from a visit to Sandy and Bud Cahill. who own
the 63 Ranch, a 2,000—acre dude ranch set back several
miles from the main road on the edge of the Gallatin Na-
tional Forest in Livingston. Mont. About 260 guests vaca~
tion there every summer, and taking care of them provides
jobs for four Cahills and 10 hired hands. The trouble is, the
Forest Service intends to log a tract half a mile away. on
Gallatin forest land, where the Cahills have horse trails.
Logging trucks will rumble past their gateposts, and instead
of peace, guests will ﬁnd dust and commotion.

In an effort to block the logging, Sandy has testiﬁed in
Washington, and fought in court and lost. Logs from the
sale—-—a below-cost sale, of course—will keep the Brand S
Mill, one of two big mills in the Gallatin, going for no more
than three weeks. Even Forest Service staffers agree that
with a dwindling local supply of privately grown logs. both
mills cannot survive. Virtually all economists agree that rec-
reation, not a marginal timber industry, represents the fu-
ture for the area near Yellowstone.

Nevertheless, the agency is determined to keep both mills
going. O’Toole ﬁgures that subsidizing the 71 mill jobs that
the Forest Service says would be lost if it reduced cutting in
the area would cost the agency $50,000 per job each year. By
contrast, the $20,000 in wages that the Cahill ranch pays out
every summer seems almost a joke. It is. however. money
generated, not wasted. But it doesn’t contribute to budget
maximization, so the 63 Ranch doesn’t stand a chance—1.8.

 

 

 

 

 

 

  




 

 

FOREST SERVICE

ble slopes once caused erosion, but no
more, according to the agency. Prob-
lems that once existed are now pre-
vented by new regulations and tech-
niques, or by what the service calls
“mitigation." Perhaps, but state ﬁsh
biologists are doubtful.

Fishermen are doubtful, too, and
they stand to lose more than just an ar-
gument if the Forest Service
doesn‘t mitigate as well as it
says it will. At Pelican, on
the Lisianski Inlet, ﬁsher-
man Reuben Yost, who is a
town councilman, says,
“You would have to be na-
ive”, to believe that the For-
est Service could build 2]
heavy bridges across the
river without fouling the
salmon spawning gravel.

As he says this. Yost and
most of Pelican’s other
townspeople are waiting for
Forest Service ﬂoatplanes
to bring in several mem—
bers of the House Com-
mittee on Interior and Insu-
lar Affairs. The townspeo-
ple are proud of Pelican, a
bright little village strung
along half a mile of board-
walk on the steep side of the
inlet, and they should be.
Fishing brings in $1 million
a year here. Pelican has a
ﬁsh-freezing plant. a gener-
al store, a shipshape array
of docks and boats and
houses. a medical clinic, a
ﬁre station. a new town
hall, a school system that
can see the town’s 50 children through
12th grade. and a bar and grill named
Rosie‘s that can see to them after they
graduate.

There are even some pickup trucks,
though the boardwalk is the only road,
and several have bumper stickers that
read I’M PROUD OF MY CONGRESSMAN
BOB MRAZEK. As it happens, Mrazek is
a Democrat who represents a district
in New York. But he has introduced
the Tongass Timber Reform Act, a bill
that would subject the Forest Service
follies in the Tongass to yearly con-
gressional review. Mrazek bumper

stickers can be found all over Juneau
and Anchorage, too. Representative
Young of Alaska must not think this is
funny, because he does not accompany
the delegation, which includes Mrazek
and Mo Udall, the Arizona Democrat
who is the chairman of the committee.

The people of Pelican ﬁll the legisla—
tive bellies with a good potluck lunch
and then ﬁll their ears with arguments
that are not those of city environmen-

_§ ‘

 

AAAA
vvvv

talists. Several people take pains to say
that they don’t like to see crops (trees,
in this case) not being put to use but
that losing enormous amounts of mon-

. ey to harvest $2 trees doesn‘t make

sense, especially when you lose the
deer-hunting and maybe the salmon in
the bargain. They don’t like the idea of
“locking land up" as wilderness, which
means a lot of entangling regulations
enforced by woodsmen in uniforms,
but some wonder if Lisianski Inlet
could get wilderness status.

A few days later Ken Roberts. the
Forest Service‘s district supervisor for

KIRCHOFF STUMPS AGAINST OVERMANAGING FORESTS

the Tongass region that encompasses
Chichagof Island, announces that the
agency intends to put Lisianski up for
logging in the ﬁve-year period now be-
ing planned. Road building has been
put on hold to give local people their
say. Roberts is a sharp advocate and a
patient, polite listener. He seems typi-
cal of the service’s ﬁeld-level manag—
ers. Giving the public its say, and then
patiently and politely ignoring objec-
tions, is something they do
very well.

They could do their jobs
more easily if they were left
to manage the forests with-
out interference, but that’s
not possible. So they listen
to both sides. On one side,
they will tell you, are the
environmental activists——
sincere but emotional peo-
ple who oppose cutting even
one tree. On the other are
the timber—industry ex-
tremists who want to keep
their mills going and don’t
care how they do it. Square
in the middle, dispensing
reason to the hotheads, is
where the Forest Service
sees itself.

So from the agency‘s
point of view. the prospect
for the Lisianski Inlet is
frontier justice—a fair trial
followed by a hanging.
It is doubtful whether Con-
gress can do anything to
stop it. Mrazek‘s bill
(HR. 1516), which would
force yearly congressio-
nal review, has 150 cospon—
sors and probably will pass
in the House. If it does, the companion
bill to break the 50-year contracts
probably will pass as well. The out-
come in the Senate is more doubtful.
with both of Alaska‘s senators rolling
the pork barrel. One representative
handicaps the situation this way: The
environmentalists will win either Mra—
zek’s 1516 or the effort to stop the oil
companies from grabbing the Alaska
National Wildlife Refuge on the
North Slope. They won‘t lose both. but
they won’t win both, either.

That’s the way the tree falls in the
legislative wilderness. I

- NorBaAmM SINN‘ao

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




TRIBUNE - February 26, 1988

A GRRRREAT ,

BOSTON MAGAZINE - March 1988

na Abuse _
h lag? quite dismayed to see that the iguana
was included as a popular pet in 88 Faces
to Watch in ’88” [lanuary]. Although these
lizards might look like small green Yo-

.~.
‘. ,-
$1.
‘ ',- .. .1

. .

. :M"‘:-'.'.
’ o ‘ to“,

‘ “9,, 5).;:-; ﬁ ‘ .. : , _' ﬂ. das in the pet store, they are quite difﬁcult

' ‘45“ :1 ~ * ' to maintain properly in captivity.

' P ‘ ‘ 3????.';'='§i' ~’ -.-..~ ' - ' In addition to the crickets and earth-
“ x 5-7 i-n.‘ if°:'g§g§¢g§; «3“?»- , worms mentioned in the article, green igua-

‘15.
.

'-’. 3"": ~.j ,:.o.:( :ﬂ'f'." ' \i‘ﬁl‘ . I
' .-.‘ .n ' ‘ .e 4‘
=3... '.', \;. c|‘.- _- . ‘1‘)?“ il‘ﬂs‘x if; .3

k

1

't.ov~
I {W}... 1

"42' graffiti nas need a variety of fresh fruits and vegeta-
"xvi;- furl“, ~' ; j . bles, regularly administered vitamins, and
. . , «wage ‘ . - some whole vertebrates such as baby mice

' or rats in their diets. To metabolize calcium,

iguanas require ultraviolet radiation from
the sun. The rays are blocked by glass and
must be provided in captivity by an ultra
violet light bulb mounted close to the ani-
mal. The bulbs are expensive and must be
replaced on a regular basis to remain effec-
tive. In addition, iguanas should be allowed

 

'L' . ‘ 3"; .'

, . _ -. - ‘ .

, . ’.,I ..‘~ ““33" . '

‘ 19".); 71-1": ‘
w r ‘ Y. ‘

‘npl . ’-
. ‘. 23:. '- ..
. . , _. n. .q
‘ aﬁiw‘t'ﬁf‘rlwv ‘5“ -~
- . .m-vt: «.t-M '
glutyb. <ALRH.‘ ' '

'2‘9- 1' H"

P

_ , :31. r.
J : -.l “
- an" ,. J' .. 1; .“~
7 ' ¢,’§)*':"‘ i' ‘ ‘2 i -‘ i ‘
. . . . “- ,.‘ . S, ‘ 4 .
,_ _' . o “.- - ‘
n TI: " ._ ‘. _,t '_. s u
. . - . - N.-
:x

{v
, if}. é
9

L
s
1‘

. 4".
a 39' .
if“ ;
.-V~‘:‘,'
'w, wt

...'-\:,._ ' ‘2" 35 ¢
tiff”) ._-A ”k’ilb

n
R J. ~. 4" 1‘..‘-- .1-
. _ \ Oil-ZJ'TrL: 3;.t‘s . ‘
‘. ,3: . ”.I 2.‘ ' .
g . _ ‘n _ -_- '
'I‘ 2; ’9? “J A
v. . .

to regulate their own body temperature.
Thus, an incandescent bulb should be pro-
vided so that the captive can raise its body
temperature to at least 100 degrees Fahren-
heit when necessary. Under these condi-
tions, and with a little luck, iguanas can
grow to more than ﬁve feet long, with a

whiplike tail and sharp claws.

Clearly these animals should not be
bought on a whim. Doing so will only cause
heartbreak to the owner and a cruel death
to the animal. It is a shame that thousands
of these lizards are imported into the United
. States each year, only to have the great ma—
jority perish from mistreatment.

David Keith Winsten

1-.
— ”v . . .
H . i ' ._ ,v '
J. 1 "\ _ . I , "-J 2...." ~
. L‘ . _ _ ‘ "v ‘ - :x.
o I, ~
‘. | '. t. .. - .~
A. ' a ‘a r. - I ~ l ’ ~ . . - . . n- - .' u‘ 1'
4 - .. . . L . I ‘ v ‘ ' ‘. '- ' " ' ’ ‘5'} ‘
II _ ~ . a... -‘ " Hf." ' '\ ". v n " " ' N 7‘: a"
Q , . n . ‘-.. an . " - . ‘ "V "‘ ‘
u - .. »'-. ..;- - ~ .. ' .. " n. '\"'I
L . ”ﬁt" ‘ 3- ..‘. ‘3' ‘ ,T . 1'3. ‘rv‘ ’. - ' ' 1 \ ‘ , u Ln 1-.. '-'
.I , -’ l“ ‘t ’ 5‘. ‘.’ - ~ ’-’ L» -. . ‘ ' -Q. . ‘ (.l. u‘ n .' . ‘-- . , v
. .- _. -"-. . ., u : ‘ " ‘ ' “”‘
. : . .~ . ~- .. y e -. ~ a ». . - -‘ ' .. “ " U“ ‘ " ‘H
. . ‘ ...~_ Hg; ’ .".‘ t . ‘. ' ." H" K <r" H ‘ ’ . IV .1 ‘
‘ , _. . ‘ s @E .~ . ~. — .'. ‘ ~| . ‘ ‘ 8* - '—
. . . . '.‘ . n . ‘ ‘ A. . " V
. . . _ ‘_ ‘ . . . v . ’_ , “ - ‘ ‘
1 w . ._ ~ . - - "
. - 2. ‘ . I ' v .\ I 1": ' S ' ‘I -
. ._ - _ .. f 4. l .s

. . ‘n b o .“
I i
. .
. ' . .
I . ‘ .t ‘ .>
. .- c:
1‘ . , I,” . g, 7‘ . l. t
u . , , ' -
. , , ”lzﬁ-‘ru J ""
. . . . .. "K\' 1' ~.' "
. r.-I 1‘ '- '- "I ’1'
u" u'. . r4 ~., r'.‘ V ‘ ' '
_ _ .3 r . ' \L' ‘
. , c . , ~' :, ~’
I . I. i’I'V ' 5": "
1 h -’ V’.~I.c . I '«d' I" ' '
. ‘ ' ‘ a
‘ .n
.

". Y

8 Now thru Sunday
at Eastlake Square Mall

. . ‘ Some ol the rarest cats in the world SPeCial PmICCtS Coordinator

H. S] .. n (3 ‘ . . . . will be on‘display -—.LlVl:-—at Center Court during our “Exotic Habitat Institute for the Environment

c me tow. et a closerup look at white and Siberian tigers, a black Jaguar, a black leopard. . . and rnore' ‘ Belmont
SSE/feigur picture taken wrth baby cubs! And learn about the fascinating big cats by attending our informar

ures. _ I

 

 

ADULT LECTURE/FEEDING OF ANIMALS

Every evening at 7: 30pm

mm YOUR FREQUENT SHOPPER MALL DeBartolo
SQUARE MALI. Shop overllSline shops&restaurants, including Belk Lindsey, JCPenney. Montgomery

Ward and Service Merchandise. 56th Street and Hillsborough Avenue. Phone: 621’7575.

 

 

 




DENVER POST - February 22, 1988

Dumb Friends League investigates cruelty, neglect

By Marilyn Robinson

Denver Post Staff Writer

'On a recent cold, snowy day,
some Denverites grew concerned
as they watched a neighbor’s dog,
which had been left outside without
any shelter.

The Samaritans finally got upset
enough to call the Denver Dumb
Friends League, which sent its ani-
mal cruelty investigator, Ben Lee,
to the neighborhood.

Lee, a retired Denver police de-
tectiVe and an animal-lover, ex-
plained to the dog’s owner that
state law requires animals to be
provided with food, water and
“protection from the elements.”
He left blueprints for a doghouse.

A week or so later, he returned.
The dog had a house built from the
plans he had left.

Not a call since

“And we haven’t had a call about
that dog since then,” said Lee.

The private non—profit league, an
authorized agent of the State Bu-
reau of Animal Protection, recent-
ly set up a one-man department to
investigate cruelty, neglect and
abandonment complaints about
small companion animals, primari—
1y cats and dogs. It handles com-
plaints in a f‘ e-county area in a

30-mile radi from the league’s

M:- -...

 

headquarters at 2080 S. Quebec St.

The program began without any
fanfare. “We wanted to get our
feet wet,” said Janice Rooney, the
league’s director of community re-
lations.

120 complaints
But even without publicity, the

. calls came in. In the first two

months of operation, the league got
120 complaints, 85 of which were
handled by the investigation de—
partment. The rest were referred
to other agencies.

“Most of the calls are about ani-
mals left out with no shelter, food
or water or that an animal seems
to be skinny and not being fed,”
said Lee.

The league, tries to handle the
complaints by educating the own-
ers, he said: “There’s a lot of peo—
ple who don’t care. There’s a lot of
people unaware that there are
laws that say animals do have
rights. And there’s a lot of people
unaware of how to take care of
their animal.

“1 would say our feeling is that
probably 98 percent of the cases
we receive can be handled by edu-

cating the owners on the animal’s ‘

needsf’

TMVS why Lee carries blue-
prmtli for doghouses and advises

 

 

WHG‘TOMCML

 

I Bureau of Animal Protection,
866-3022. Concerns about treat-
ment of exotic or 200 animals,
complaints of cruelty to large
animals.

I Colorado Bureau of Investiga-
tion, 239—4300. Complaints '
about gambling and animal
ﬁghﬂng.

I Colorado Division of Wildlife,
297-1192. Concerns about wild-
life or animal poisoning.

I Colorado Health Department,
331—8336. Complaints about pet
shops, exotic or 200 animals,
animal poisonings or excessive
numbers of animals kept at a
site.

 

l

owners how to feed their animals.
But the league’s work doesn’t

stop there. “We do make follow-up

contacts to make sure the situation

has been resolved,” Rooney said. .

“If the situation hasn’t improved,
the league may contact the proper
authorities and assist in prosecut-
ing these individuals.”

tinder state law, Cruelty to ani-
mals is a Class 1 misdemeanor. .

IColorado Humane Society,
289-2891. Complaints about
cruelty, neglect or abandon—
ment of small animals or pet
shop conditions; animal poison-
ing cases. -

I Denver Dumb Friends
League, 671-5212. Complaints
about animal cruelty, neglect or
abandonment or pet shop con-
ditions; animal poisoning cases.

I U.S. Division of Wildlife, Den-
ver office, 291-7727. Concerns
about wildlife.

I US. Department of Agricul-
ture, 844—2953. Complaints
about pet shop conditions or
exotic or 200 animals.

 

Conviction on the charge can carry
up to two years in jail and a $5,000
fine. People who are concerned
about a possible abused, neglected
or abandoned animal may call the

. league’s special line at 750-0310.

Other agencies that also handle
animal complaints include: local
animal control divisions; law en-
f orcernent agencies; and health de-
partmgﬁtts. ~




DALLAS ORNING NEWS - March 2, 1988

 

Friends win

FERRET FIX

Public outcry wins pardon
for exotic animal found
by Farmers Branch officer

By Marilyn Chase
Staff Writer

FARMERS BRANCH — He may not know it,
but the fuzzy, pink-eyed ferret caged at the ani-
mal shelter in Farmers Branch owes his life to a
city full of friends.

Felix the ferret was destined for execution
this week, but public outcry won him a pardon
from the mayor late Monday.

“We are going to ferret out a solution,” said
Mayor John Dodd.

Felix has been the center of a storm of con-
troversy since Friday, when he responded to
the whistle of Farmers Branch police officer
Rodney Wallace.

Since then, several area residents and ani-
mal rights groups have tried to rescue the furry
creature from the city’s animal shelter.

Felix was first Spotted by Wallace on Friday
when the officer was patrolling near Spring Val-
ley Road and Dallas Parkway. When Wallace
opened the door of his patrol car and whistled,
the animal jumped into his lap and snuggled
against him, he said.

Wallace took the friendly ferret to the city’s
animal shelter and attached a note to his cage
that said: “Please do not destroy. If no one
claims it, I want it back.”

Shannon Anaya of Garland learned about Fe-
lix from her husband, Manny, a Farmers
Branch police officer. She telephoned friend Ka-
thy Snyder of Plano. Together, they began
spreading the word. '

News spread rapidly about the ferret’s plight,
and the city’s animal shelter has been deluged
with requests to adopt Felix. ,

But, because a city ordinance prohibits ex- Farmers Branch Mayor John Dodd With

Please see FRIENDS on Page l9A. Felix the ferret.

The Dallas Morning News: Richard Michael Pruitt

“cut

for

lost ferret

Continued from Page 13A.
otic animals, animal con-

trol officials said Felix could not be
adopted and would be destroyed if

0
his owner was not found.

reprleve

He said he spoke with Karen

Animal control officer Mike Wors-
Wakeland, owner of the Animal Re-
“He's got a reprieve," Dodd said.

ham said his department could not
“We can only release it to the

owner,” Worsham said.
But Dodd said he will

through red tape” and may consult a
about taking the animal. Ms. Wake-r
land has a state license to keep wild
animals. In any event, Dodd said, the

proved vaccine for ferrets. He also
habilitation Center near Midlothian,
ferret won't be put to death.

take responsibility for placing Felix
for adoption because there is no ap-
said the animals sometimes bite.

 

 

 

 




AMERICAN WAY - March 15, 1988

J

o own exotic,
rare and beauti-
ful animals may
be one of life’s
ﬁner pleasures,
particularly if one
is lucky enough
to get healthy
specimens with
compatible per-
sonalities. It’s
easy, however,
to go a bit wrong.

A blue or white peacock
can be an arrogant and self-
applauding lout, as well as
a breathtaking fan dancer. A Chinese
Shar-Pei, at a cost of $3,000 or $4,000
each, for a puppy, may grow up as
smooth as a ﬂuffed pillow, and those
amazing wrinkles you bargained for
might never appear.

A vicuﬁa, whose ancestors trace
back to the high Andes, is unlikely to
be a purebred at whatever price. The
single most-pure vicuna north of Peru
is supposed to be a 90-percenter that
lives near Winnipeg, Canada. A treaty

"I“!
iii-1'

'1: take: - a
Ii in ma

7‘ I ’
Q .~. ii

2 4. A

3" . ‘,

I.) .

.. n< _
.' .

A ,. , _A,
. 5 ._- _,_
V

invention a Chimera, after the Greek for
she-goat or monster. The modem usage
of chimera has come to mean a mere
wild fancy or unfounded conception,
which, before 1984, the geep was. (For
the sake of brevity, we’ll use the easy
four—letter geep.)

In the accompanying photograph,
the geep, nicknamed Dutchess, and a
smaller lamb stand side by side. The
geep is a surrogate mother to the lamb;
recently the geep gave birth to a
healthy lamb of her own. Family rela-
tionships among invented life forms
tend to get complex.

As invented life, geep and such may
soon fall under the commercial protec-
tion of US. patent, trademark and
copyright laws, which could give the
geeps’ inventors a 17-year period of
protection and exclusive reproduction
rights to all geep and their offspring.
Royalties would be due to the patent
owners from geep farmers. If a farmer
should, without authorization, mate his
geep —- or if the geep capriciously se-
duces a barnyard mate on its own, and

_ little “kambs” and/or “lids” are born

I? all; _

gem

beware“ v.5."

 

much stricter than any anti-cocaine
pact forbids export of the beasts from
their native altitudes. Llamas are the
less-sought-after relatives of the vi-
cuﬁa and are available in North Amer-
ica, although a sure-ﬁre, top-stud, full-
pedigree llama — a ﬁve-L llama, so to
speak — has fetched a price of nearly
$100,000. Then there are Chinese pond
carp of extravagant color, marking and
cost; Amazonian talking parrots; black
swans; lynx, manx and zebra; brave

as a result —— then a federal law may
have been broken and a suit for patent
infringement will be possible.

Beyond the awesome commercial
aspects, one need only close one’s
eyes and imagine the extraordinary
potential consequences of patented life

Geep did

not exist until 1984.

 

A A
v

 

forms for Old MacDonald’s farm. In a
recent front-page story, The New York
Times discussed the likelihood of such
“startling innovations” as attaching
certain genes from fecund mice to
genes from pigs with the intention of
creating a new race of “migs,” or per-
haps “swice,” which can give birth to
25 babies at a time, about twice as
many as a sow delivers today. There
also may be, although the Times did

bantam roosters for rural
cockpits; funny, agile fer-
rets; even tarantulas, ﬁd-
dler crabs, boa constric-
tors, ostrich and tapir.

Many of these life forms
have been tamed and trea—
sured for ages, and the
best specimens have been
and still are a joy and boon
to their owners and care-
takers. But nowadays, if
one is to occupy a place in
the forefront of natural
history, either as a farmer
or a zoo keeper, one may
be compelled to pay a high new price.
plus fees and royalties, to own a unique
animal like a geep.

A geep did not exist on Earth until
1984 when it was ﬁrst created by bio-
technological magic in Great Britain.
The next year an American geep was
made by Dr. Gary Anderson and his
fellows at the University of California
at Davis. Dr. Anderson does not like the
name geep, an Anglo-Saxonish blend of
sheep with goat. He instead named his )

COURTESY OF UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, DAVIS

not mention this, the potential for fus-
ing bovine genes, from a Guernsey
cow, say, with those of a beluga whale,
to create a mammoth “Whow!” that
could udderly revolutionize the dairy
industry. .

With visions of more Lewis Car-
rollesque inventions dancing in their
heads, and being a tad timid about
greeting these oddities head-on m’th
optimism, Congressman Charlie Rose,
a Democrat from North Carolina, and
Jeremy Rifkin, a persistent opponent
of unbridled biotechnology from Wash—
ington, DC, are calling for a delay in
granting patent coverage to new ani-
mal forms for at least two years.
Meanwhile, the business and biologi-
cal and ethical issues will be debated
in the Congress.

Even if the federal patent policy is
delayed, at least some of the geep and
swice and Whows! will be coming off the
drawing boards and turning up in sties,
stalls, corrals and pens. For those of
you who are undaunted in the new won-
derlands of invented pets and livestock,
we will try to keep you posted. Ci

 




' , , _- DENVER POST - February 22, 1988
Fund ralsmg In the works

New Houston SPCAfaoility to replace

an; ‘ mauw -—-4-

David Smyth, President of
the Houston Society for
o the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (HSPCA), recently an-
_ nounced the unanimous decision
of the Society’s Board of Directors
‘ to move forward with a capital im-
provement program.

For several years the directors
have investigated, evaluated and
considered numerous possibilities
for improving the current HSPCA
facilities. The present shelter, locat-
ed on approximately 1.5 acres at
519 Studemont St., is rapidly ap-
proaching the one-hall century
mark of age distinction; however,
the constant stress of handling
nearly two million animals during
this period of time has taken its toll
on the facility's structure. Also, the
shelter was damaged extensively
durin- Hurricane Alicia in 1983

Though h’ﬁiﬁéﬁﬁé‘i‘ﬁﬁiavea-
ments have been made in recent
years (the Puppy Parlour, Cat

Condo, Kitten Kastle), the continu-

.‘ ous maintenance problems and
other necessrties required for the
thousands of ani-

 

 

 

mals handled annu- W ..
. ally have caused sig- "
nificant increases in
‘ expenditures. Con-
sequently, the board '
. of directors decided
“ that a Band-Aid ap-
proach was no long-
er a viable alterna-
five.
Last year, numerous me '
. wereconducted by the SPCeRggS
. budding. committee, chaired by
. SPCA Director David M. Stonaker
and the architectural firm of Can— J
nad Jackson and R an, the new

 

A design of the future home of the Houston SPCA.

Robert 0.
Shannon

PetSet

 

 

 

shelter’s designers. AftérTéViewf '
1 ing, discussing, deleting, evaluat-

ing and compromising, the build-

; ing committee finalized its

thoughts and a design of the future
home of the Houston SPCA was

' tally enclosed.

‘ . ‘

current one '

created.

The new facility will replace the
current one on the present site.
Services will continue as temporary
structures will be used and only
portions of the old structure will be
removed in a time sequence ar— '
rangement. The current facility is

. approximately 20,000 square feet,

whereas the planned facility will be
28,000 square feet and will be to-' ,’

4-. >
.. _ .-. .-. ~~-~-~.o

 

 




Over 200 indoor kennel runs Will
'be constructed with a capacity to
comfortably house 300—400 dogs,
depending on size. Three separate
catteries are planned with a total
capacity to house approximately
150 cats/ kittens — each adult cat
will be provided an individual
condo unit. Other features include
separate admitting and holding ar—
eas for dogs and cats, isolation ar-
eas, intensive care units, surgery
suites, examination and treatment
rooms, euthanarium, grooming
and bathing area, library, food
preparation area, conference room,
food storage area and large animal
holding area (horses, cattle, sheep,
etc.). There also will be employee
and student apartments, park and
garden area, adoption counseling
cubicles, and administrative areas
to accommodate the HSPCA’s staff

E “O 5.3
Q H.§ E; 8 IE
m m: C) < 8%
>« H :II ‘3 m5
< gut H}?
e <9 23 E if: a:
Z 55 ° 83:: a:
(:3 05¢ Em 8

gives them a bird.

It’s the ﬁrst egg laid in cap-

tivity by the endangered spe-

cies It arrived a week ago at

of cruelty investigamrs, nui'nane
educators, ke.nnelattendants,
adoption counselors, animal health
personnel, volunteers, public rela-
tions, administrative management.
The cost of the completed proj—
ect has been set at approximately
$2 million with a timetable of two
years in which to raise the funds.
Stephanie Roussel Milburn, a
member of the HSPCA Board of
Directors, is Chairman of the Cap-
ital Building Fund Drive Commit-
tee. This very active committee
plans to initiate a massive fund-
raising campaign together with an
aggressive public awareness pro-
gram. Milburn and other commit-
tee members are optimistic that
construction can begin much earli—
er than the established two-year
timetable. It took Atlanta nearly
four years to raise the $2 million

’t be
1y

contained,” Bill Toone, curator

of birds said Thursday.

d night.

Those who weigh it dai
have one fear — dropping it.

’5 Wild Animal Park.

“I’m so excited I can
The lO-ounce, pale blue-
green egg is monitored around
ees, and turned 180 degrees

the clock. It’s kept in an incuba-
tor at a constant 97 to 98 de-

San Diego
each morning an

gr

 

It should hatch between

April 29 and May 3.

needed to litiglti lts new munucs.

In my opinion, Houston can do it
in half that time, if not sooner. This
year, the Houston SPCA will cele—
brate its 64th year as a Houston in-
stitution. The society has always
been totally dependent on public
donations for its existence as no
government or United Way funds
are received. As expected, there
have been good times and bad
times during the shelter’s history.
Its survival is a credit to the many
dedicated hard-working people
over the years.

I wish there was room to men-
tion all of them by name. They
were and are people who are genu-
inely concerned about the welfare
of animals. The new building will
certainly be a monument to all of
the people who care.

ll be

They started courting again
as soon as the ﬁrst egg was re-

moved. A second egg could ar—

rive within the month.
There are only 27 California

condors in the world, all in cap-

But the proud parents have
tivity. Fourteen are here.

Condor hand puppets wi
used to feed the chick for six
other things on their minds.

months. Then it takes a ﬂight in
the 200’s “Condorminium.”

L; __._.

- aura..-
,

ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH - Feb. 26, 1988

LETTERS :

The Truth About Dog

Fifty thousand greyhounds killed last
year? Greyhounds eating tainted meat, then
racing sick while on illegal drugs? These are
some of the sensationalistic words of recent
letters from animal-protection groups. It is
time for the people of Missouri to hear the
truth. about the sixth largest spectator sport
in the United States: greyhound racing.

According to the National Greyhound As-
sociation, 33,021 grey-
hounds were whelped
in the United States last
year. (It’s pretty hard to
kill 50,000 greyhounds
when only 33,000 were
born). A typical grey-
hound meal consists of

 

LETTERS
FRONI
_ THE
PEOPLE

 

 

ty beef, vitamins, bis-
. cults, vegetables, but-
termilk, stew and cereal. The success of the
racmg greyhound depends on'lts good health
and condition. Tainted meat or tainted any-
thing given to the greyhound would simply
be in the owner’s worst interest and is there-
fore obviously something that is not done.

Greyhound racing is the cleanest, fairest
and most honest form of any pari-mutuel
wagering. Unlike horse racing, the grey-
hound racing establishment bars the use of
drugs. intended to permit the dogs to com-
pete in a race they otherwise might have
missed.

In addition, if a greyhound weighs in be-
fore a race 11/2 pounds over or under its
established racing weight, it is not allowed to
race. This is another safeguard for the grey-
hound and the bettor, ensuring that only
healthy animals will be racing.

After the recent tornado hit the West
Memphis, Ark, area, Southland Greyhound
Park donated $100,000 to the West Memphis
Tornado Relief Fund. Greyhounds and grey-"

 

1 hound people are the catalysts behind’eco-
~ nomic boosts to the community, increasing-

jobs and tax dollars, as well as providing
excrting entertainment for the state.

Don Broadway

. . St. Peters 1

21/2 pounds of top quali-

Racing

 




 

 

TAMPA TRIBUNE - March 6, 1988

Georgia preserve _
offers ideal shoot

By FRANK SARGEANT
Tribune Outdoors Editor

Hunters in need of an end-of—the season “fix”
-couldn’t do better than to visit one of the hunting pre-
serves scattered throughout Florida and southern Geor-
gia. Shooting continues through the end of March, and
because birds are released daily throughout the season,
hunting is just as good in the last weeks as on opening
day.

One of the best of these operations -— and the only
one in the southeast offering mallard shooting in addi-
tion to quail, pheasant and chukar — is Foxfire Hunting
Preserve, near Thomasville, Ga.

There, owner Jimmy Vaughn has created a wing-
shooter’s paradise. The manicured courses for upland
birds look more like parks than farmland, and the
string of bird dogs make a limit almost a sure thing for
any shooter of reasonable skill.

But the unique part of Jimmy’s operation is his mal-
lard shoot. He’s developed a system of releasing, then
recalling, wild-strain mallards, which spend the day on
the lakes on his multi-thousand acre spread, then ﬂy
back to a feed barn at dusk.

Jimmy, a 48-year-old bundle of energy who walks at
sprint speed for most men, won’t reveal all the details
of just how these ducks are kept under control, but
proudly notes that he’s never had a “fly off" — a disas-
ter for the preserve operator wherein all the ducks
simply pick up and leave town, never to be seen again.
Considering that the birds represent $10 bills sailing
through the air, and with up to 1,500 of them in the
flock at once, such a loss would be substantial.

The shoot takes place from wood blinds built on the
40 acre day-pond. The birds come in over thick pine
forest at ranges that vary from 20 to 50 yards, popping
into the shooting zone for only a few seconds before
whizzing overhead and splashing down in the center of
the lake. Once the birds land, they are not harassed -—
otherwise, says Jimmy, they’d ﬂy off.

Downed birds are retrieved by a pair of Labradors,
trained not to swim into the refuge area and scare off
the flock.

Vaughn also offers a decoy hunt on another lake,
where birds are called into shooting range —— some-
times.

The generous limit makes the shoot particularly ap-
pealing for the hunter used to pursuing wild ducks. You
can take eight per day, more if you pay an added
per-bird charge — as opposed to one hen or three
‘ drake mallard under federal rule. _

There’s no rising at 4 am. as in hunting wild ducks,
either. The shoot starts at 8 am. sharp, rain or shine.
Most shooters limit out in under an hour.

After the shoot, Vaughn lays out a table-breaking
breakfast spread at the big cedar lodge. Then it’s time
to take on a clay bird course that is one of the most
interesting in the nation. He offers the clays fired at
' every imaginable angle from every sort of cover. An
18-bird “quail walk” through heavy timber even has
bleacher seating so that companions can watch each

 

 

 

 

Tribune photograph by FRANK SARGEANT
Ducks at the Foxfire Hunting Preserve near
Thomasville, Ga., return to the barn at night,
but are targets during the early part of the day
for hunters who pay for the priviledge of shoot—
ing them. '

other miss. You will, plenty —— only three shooters have
broken all 18, and each was a world trap shooting
champion. '

I got all of six.

While you’re chasing the targets, your birds are be-
ing cleaned and packed for the trip home.

It’s a truly enjoyable gunning experience, ideally
suited for young or elderly shooters and for ladies who
don’t like to rough it, as well as for seasoned sports-
men. Compared to the ordeal of long, pre-dawn drives,
endless slogging through icy marshes and frequently
empty skies of duck hunting on public lands these days,
it’s a welcome respite.

Foxfire is about five hours from Tampa via I-75 and
I-10. There’s an airstrip for private airplanes right on
the preserve, or ground transport can be arranged from
the Tallahassee airport. Prices are $195 per gun for
mallard pass shooting, $125 for mallard over decoys,
and $195 for upland birds. A comfortable, brand new
lodge is available for overnights. For a brochure, write
Foxfire, P.O. Box 26, Thomasville, Ga. 31799 or call
(912) 226-2814. .

Historic Thomasville is just a few minutes up the :
road — it’s a center for tours of the many plantations
and historic sites in the area. For details, contact the
Thomasville Chamber of Commerce, Box 560, Thomas
ville, Ga. 31799; (912) 226-9600. ‘

 

 

 

 




 

DENVER POST - February 29, 1988

 

Volunteers with patience of spiders
to keep eyes on nesting bald eagles

By Lou Chapman
Denver Post Environment Writer

George' Dempster, a self-em-
ployed billing contractor and avid
bird watcher, has a good portion of
his spring and summer mapped
out.

He will be sitting patiently look-
ing through a high-powered tele-
scope at two adult bald eagles nest-
ing at Barr Lake State Park near
Brighton.

Every five minutes, he’ll make a
note of what the proud birds are
doing.

Dempster will be part of a team
of volunteers being put together by
state wildlife officials to keep a
constant watch on the eagles from
dawn to dark each day from mid-
March to late July.

The point is to record the min-

ute-by-minute lives of the two birds

and the world around them.
Noises, other animals, the weath-
er, Barr Lake visitors, airplanes
overhead —-' all will be recorded,
from just before the female bald
eagle lays her eggs until, it is
hoped, a fledgling takes wing a few
months later.

“There has been little observa-
tion of the entire cycle of bald ea-
gle nesting,” said Carol Leasure,
Barr Lake State Park manager.
“We want tolearn what the disturv
bances are and what their reac-
tions are.”

The Barr Lake nest is the only
known active nest between the
Continental Divide and the Great
Lakes states. There are nine bald
eagle nests in Colorado.

Dozens of bald eagles, the na-
tional bird and an endangered spe-

 

‘It could be real boring.
Sometimes they just sit
there for a long time.
And you have to watch
them constantly.’

George Dempster

 

cies, use the Barr Lake area and a
grove of trees on the nearby Rocky
Mountain Arsenal for roosting. _

Last year, a female bald eagle
produced one egg at theBarr Lake
nest, but the male bird left the nest
five to seven days after the egg
was laid. The female left a short
time before the egg was due to
hatch.

Wildlife officials are trying to
find out why, because eagles are
usixally protective of their eggs,
guarding the nest. together and
rarely leaving except for brief
ﬂights. . .

“We don’t know why they left,

what happened, what was going on

at the time,” Leasure said. “We

hope to learn more this year.”
Wildlife biologists are concerned

about the possible effects of air-

craft, which fly over the park to '

and from Staplet'on Airport...’l‘he
birds also may have been too
young to parent the egg.

State wildlife officials todk the
egg from the llarr Lake nest after
the adults had. abandoned it and
found the egg contained a perfectly

normal embryo. '

This winter, another pair of ea-
gles has taken up residence at the
nest.

“We’re not sure if it’s the same
male,” Leasure said. “But for

,them to come back to the same

nest, it’s probably the same fe-
male.”

The birds are about 5 years old.
Bald eagles live to about 20 years.

In cooperation with the state Di-
vision of Wildlife, the park has ask-
ed for volunteers to staff two hid-
den blinds, each about one-half
mile from the nest. Each blind will
have two observers.

Dempster, who admits to being
a fanatic bird watcher, was one of
about 170 volunteers who showed
up for a recent. introduction and in-
struction session for the project.

“It could be real boring,”
Dempster said. “Sometimes they
just sit there for a long time. And
you have to watch them constant-
ly. But it’s something people should
know about. We have the national
bird, an endangered species, so
close to our towns, and we’ve got
to learn how to keep them there.”

Dempster, like other bird watc’h-
ers and federal wildlife officials, is
concerned about encroachment.
from a proposed huge Denver air-
port east and south of Barr Lake
and by Brighton’s plans to annex
land north of the state park.

“Actually, I hope we don’t learn
why they abandoned the nest, be-
cause I hope that doesn’t happen,”
Dempster said. “But I sure hope
we learn what bothers them and
how they deal with it. To see this
nest impaired would be tragic.”

—

u‘nC . ‘-

 

's,ueippq3 ie iosi/t

-13dl'lS Suismu e ‘ijuow auuv pies ‘djeos pue 932; an}

 

Y
<3
3..
3': .
1.
$331
a

a
If i

eds;
n13!

«cm 81a 93131.;

EM ulna);
laurel; S'JELUIU’E aux,"

ueipnug oi [eiid'soH jeiauang

deepen 5Q “M09 5
'PI99 sassautlléf

lines mods SpélQ:

 

008 e- m imam: ;

nun); ’3' tuna);
(dV) 0&0 ‘G'IHH‘SNVW

aq punod»

-d 99:2; mode Jeeq an} liq 9323.}

to :2 swine are mm 91

80' 932m PlellSUEI/t an: 1? ratio:

But); a

d
e 10} pesod an 32 In

em won 331
488“ ’9 qomw 'Aopuns/tsod uotsnoH any '1

o: sine Lupe uompuoo iood. u; paisgj

‘anuinjog u; jeiidsoH 3‘
pore aorjod ‘lfeui Sugddous e m Rep

or pain an se pamfuiosie $9M
any ,ssone pastels seas. uoneg jo

.1;th a auto-nan? BIEKIM 1‘?
$9M Koq pic-199 *3 V ‘—

‘pies teatime
. 2.1mm 31235

S; maq DIGQSU

BEN

‘imid‘sou- piaasuew. am 12 puree tiara.

I‘lQM e 10; peiean Suieq 88M "m ‘ijooxqqqu

"Spunod 002 sums-M min

leaq ipejq ueﬂeremm pie-malts; ‘peuien e

e. Jaye

sv was

(I

noissas Bugxei-einiogd 2 Stamp paumoo inapgoui' eq:

’ptes sasseuiw ’miq
ielil pjegsuew u; jeumor SMSN am Plot 93999319“;

b or in peuea 8.13M
neural: 9‘1an at“, .

018 are Gino Roe 9m. 9311.01. mac: .
doed. paipunu {mamas ‘

pies requiedsip aoijod. an; ‘painjdeo ‘ueaq
991i; 1 an; pue synoppjog go aaueuuopa

iuawuedap- queen [ever am pm: uapmM awe
an} mm jeumor smote an} pie} Janie; spun

pen 1! aouo mad em aunuemn
I0 ‘03 "If uauﬁen 13am

panama puepun
all ‘UO paxooj 3i

an} O} pu

 

 

 

:
I

 




 

DAYTON DAILY NEWS - March 6, 1988

Doberman top hero

with Lassie-like feat ‘

Dog ran for neighbor to save owner’s life
i

. e feat that won the 34th annual
K L Ration Dog Hero of the Year
aviard could have been a rescue story
orghie old TV program, Lassie, but it
h ened in real life.

”310 screen writer wrote this story,”

. actor Jon Provost, who played the
15$: boy, Timmy. 30 years ago on the
L ' ie series.

n a ceremony at the nation’s Capitol,
heiproclaimed a female 6-year-old Do-
b man pinscher from Sepulveda,
C if., as the winner of the top hero
is ard, chosen from a field of five final-
s; by public vote.

, et, whose registered name is Grid-
iritn’s Air Coryell, after former NFL
C(Pch Don- Coryell.‘ was honored be-
to an audience of senators and repre-
tives for saving the life of her
r, Candy Sangster. In October,
. in the house except for her dog,
M . Sangster fell into a diabetic coma
atptime when her husband was awa

fo the weekend. '
.' mehow the usually quiet dog
0 ed a fence to enter a neighbor’s

yet) and start barking. Mrs. Sangster
woBld not have lived until her hus-
‘ézisbu’s return, said the paramedics sum-

iggd by neighbor Hazel Levin in re-

 
 

s se to Jet’s barking.

e other finalists, chosen from
- 300 nominations were: a Rottwei-
ho rescued a drown'ing girl; 3a
German shepherd who saved a

 
     
 
 

: her who ran for help for an owner

from fire; an elderly Doberman .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I DOG SHOW RESULTS/4

 

severely injured in the woods; and a
wheaten terrier-Labrador cross who
saved a drowning infant.

A year’s supply of the sponsor’s Ken-
L Ration dog food and a medallion on a
red, white and blue ribbon were Jet’s
rewards for heroism. As a special gift
to this year’s honoree from Rudd
Weatherwax, Lassie’s owner and train-
er, Provost presented Jet with one of
Lassie’s collars.

“Jet’s story resembles some of Lass-
ie’s heroic actions and would have
made Lassie proud," Provost said. “I
think Lassie’s popularity is enduring
because of the special relationship she
represents between man and dog. By
saving Candy Sangster’s life, Jet dem-
onstrated that dog heroes live on screen
. . . and off.”

Jet jetted across country to Washing-

ton last week for these ceremonies that

.‘_ ~...a. . ._..-_

 

 

  

  
   

1* -:"' h. .. _,._ “ﬂy V
Sangster and Jet

 

Candy

also marked the beginning of National
Dog Hero Week. The first week in
March now is designated by governors
and mayors across the land as a time
“for all dogs regarded by their owners
as the heroes they are or could be."

Previous dog hero award winners
have come from 22 states. They have
saved 41 lives, as well as averting acci-
dents. attacks, burglaries. drownings
and exposure to the elements.

Five collies. five German shepherds,
five St. Bernards. one each of Dober-
mans. Newfoundlands, cocker spaniels,
Shetland Sheepdogs, great Danes, min-
iature poodles, standard poodles, Ches-
apeake Bay retrievers, Labrador re-
trievers, terriers and 10 mixed-breed
dogs have been medal winners. There
have been 20 dogs and 15 bitches.

If you know of a dog’s heroic deed
performed after Oct. 1, 1987. send a
detailed description of the deed to: Ken-

L Ration Dog Hero of the Year. 231 '
Green St., P.O. Box PET, Chicago, Ill. ,
50607. Include your name, address and ‘

phone number.

DALLAS TIMES HERALD Weekend - 4/4-6/88

 

 

REFRESHING PAWS
W

A new meaning to
a r r - 1
It s a dog s life

At the Argyle Fountain Spa,
clients are pampered from
head to toe to tail, and even the
homeliest snout gets a facral.

Pe0ple and pets get. the
works at the l4—acre facrhty in
Argyle, Texas, 25 miles north-
west of Dallas. Pups offer paws
for fpedicures, cats are cut and
coi ed, and owners can watch
it all on closed-circuit TV while
having their own beauty regi-
men. And no matter how
much you yowl, everybody gets
a healthful spa menu.

Human weekend retreats be-
gin at $195; pets at $25.

Owner Sue Goldstem plans
to open another multipurpose

spa in Dallas this spring, add--

 

All. Douro no: Stylist Mo Aciiey
grooms liashi, a Yorkshire terrier.

ing autos to the list of things .

that the staff will wash and
groom. Her next spa spin-off?
“Something for kids, preparing
them for healthier lifestyles.”

—cl 0 I. I. u I.

  

By Peter Poulides

 

 




BOSTON GLOBE - March 2, 1988

Calif. sting

 

FT. LAUDERDALE SUN-SENTINEL - March 7, 1988

LETTERS :

hits ring
of wildlife
poachers

By Jack Schreibman
Associated Press

COLMA, Calif. - A sting oper-
ation has resulted in charges
against 52 persons who allegedly
operated a $100 million poaching
ring that dealt in tiger, bear, sea
lion and rhinoceros parts. state of—
ficials announced yesterday.

Surrounded by bear gallblad-
ders. bear—claw jewelry. skin
parts, whole stuffed bears. skulls.
dried abalone and the genitalia of
seals and Asian tigers, Chuck
Monroe. the regional game war-
den chief. said the investigation
helped to “wipe out the poaching
of California's precious wildlife."

Officials Said they expect that
an additional 23 persons in South-
ern California will be charged as a
result of “Operation Ursus," the

code name given the 23-month-

probe by the state Department of
Fish and Game.

Many of the animal parts were
sold to Asians who regard them as
aphrodisiacs and tonics. he'said.

At one point, an undercover
warden taking part in an illegal
safari in the state was forced to
kill a treed bear. Monroe said as
he described the complexity and
danger of the probe.

So far. Monroe said, agents
have made 14 arrests and ob-
tained three search warrants.
Those convicted of poaching can
draw stiff fines and prison sen—
tences. Monroe said.

%______

 

 

The display in the council
chamber of ColmaCity Hall. just
south of San Francisco. represent-
ed $85,000 worth of exotic ani-
mals and organs seized in the
sting. he said.

The probe extended from the
black bear range of Northern Cali-

 

 

AP photo
During a news conference in Colma, Calif., a state fish and game
official shows the skull of a black bear and a stuffed juvenile black
bear after they had been seized from alleged poachers.

fornia to San Francisco and Los
Angeles. with the arrests made
over two months. said Monroe.

in addition to its focus on state
wildlife, the probe recovered parts
of animals from outside the coun-
try that were illegally shipped
here, he said.

 

 

Animal experiments

. should be outlawed

Animals have rights just like hu-
man being and I believe these rights
are based on moral grounds. Moral-
ly, cruel treatment and neglect can
never be justified.

There are three bills to protect an-
imals which need public support: The
Consumer Product Safe Testing Act,
The Information Dissemination and
Research Accountability Act, and
The Pet Protection Act. These acts
would save thousands of former pets
from unspeakable torture.

It has been disclosed that most of
the experiments on animals are un-
related to human health. The only
ones who benefit are the researchers
who depend on‘ huge government
grants to support their fat salaries.

If lawmakers are really looking to
cut costs, there’s no better place than
eliminating taxpayer support for an-
imal cruelty. Our tax dollars are
used to fund often the cruelest, most
useless experiments that can be per-
formed on the very animals we love
and think our tax money is being
spent to protect.

We need to demand protection and
freedom from senseless suffering for
all our animals. Our legislators must
be advised of our feelings in order to
stop the horrors of the most flagrant
forms of animal abuse.

FRANCINE MEINELSCHMIDT
* Miramar

.~.——--.- - , . >-' _,_.A, ._ .f-JA'V“
\

 

 




DALLAS TIMES HERALD - March 4, 1988

t .....L ....,.,__........— L - ...‘.._-. Tr"?! iv

 

 

1

w «wu- w», .

‘ «VJ.

.
”V'Vlﬂiah—r "Mama,“ .‘ V, .
* nr'M 14-.wz+,.¢ ‘ . ~, :
' ' n “v
. ””3 ‘“ ‘Pﬁﬁv

 

 

I

A 6-f00t baby Skeeter Hagler/Dallas Times Herald

A female. baby giraffe, 6 feet tall and weighing about
150 pounds, was born Wednesday night at the Dallas
Zoo. Zoo ofﬁcials have started a contest to name the
baby. Entries can be sent to Joe Christman, curator of
mammals at the Dallas Zoo, by March 18.

 

London Zoo

’5 ﬁrst hand-reared aard
keeper of the Children 5 Zoo,

9

W

vark went on show y

93
(I)
8'
3
pa
N
D:
D
‘<
U)
93
HQ
0
93
l:

esterday. Abi '
d is fed

gal
on a mix

1, pi
ture of mi

ctured wi
1k

th Linda Sharp
, eggs and mine

e

I

head

 

Picture

c
.

ADRIAN CLACK

LONDON (England) DAILY TELEGRAPH

March 4 ,

1988

 




TAMPA TRIBUNE - March 9, 1988

Animal Lifestyles

luck an animal from the wilder-

ness, safeguard it from predators
and serve it toothsome, scheduled sup-
pers — and what do you get? A prob-
lem taxing the creativity of zoo keep-
ers: animal ennui. '

Bored baboons, blase bears and
listless apes are captives of cushy life-
styles in zoos around the country. Hu-
man caretakers compensate by spic-
ing up zoo routines with various
excitements.

At the National Zoological Park in
Washington, DC, gorillas get TV priv-
ileges. No, they don’t watch the
McLaughlin Group, although we don’t
know why not. According to National
Public Radio, the great apes prefer
ads and soaps. In Philadelphia, zoo
keepers appeal to their charges’ sense
of touch, taste and smell. Bears use
colored balls as play props. Primates
pig out on p0pcorn (unbuttered and
unsalted, of course). _Wolves roll
around in dirt laced with stimulating
scents — Alaskan Moose Musk is a
favorite.

Happily, there’s little chance the
animals at Tampa’s new zoological
showcase -— Lowry Park —— will be
heaving soulful sighs. Granted, many
Lowry Park inmates have barely set-
tled in. But.- given the run of a nearly

natural habitat, they’ll be unlikely to
develop mammalian melancholia.
And they’ll probably never resort to
the rhythmic, repetitive behaviors
that make caged animals heartbreak-
ing to watch.

According to curator Lex Salisbury,
Lowry Park’s chimp habitat is an ex-
ample of invigorating design. A water-
fall, stream and lake are suitable for
frolicking. Sunflower seeds broadcast
throughout the living area encourage
foraging. Nor are the pampered pri-
mates deprived of pursuits involving
tools. An “artificial termite mound”
-- sans termites —- offers tempting
tastes of mustard or jam for chimps
willing to fish around with a stick.

*And a systematic, detailed study of

chimp behavior —— undertaken with
primate expert Jane Goodall — could
lead to better understanding of
chimps in the wild and improved liv-
ing conditions for chimps in zoos.

On a list of the world’s ills, animal
ennui may not rate high. But a look at
what happens to animals when trials
are removed may help explain why
sloth is one of the seven deadly sins.
Life on Earth is harsh and if the chal-
lenges seem unending, we may take
comfort in the fact that all creatures,
great and small, are uniquely fitted to
meet them.

TAMPA TRIBUNE - March 10, 1988

 

 

 

 

 

 

Associated Press photograph

Bearofajob

Workers remove a 26-foot—high koala billboard Wednes-
day near Miami International Airport. Three normal-size ko-
alas arrived Tuesday at the Miami Metrozoo from San Die-
go for an exhibit that opens March 19. The billboard will be
put up at another Miami location.

 

 




HOUSTON POST - March 6, 1988

 

 

nique type
:of rabbit aids
7heart studies '
igHigh tolerance

for cholesterol

 

ey Leslie Loddeke

 

. OF THE HOUSTON POST

A unique strain of rabbit that
can eat a‘ fat-filled diet without
1:3getting the clogged arteries that
. Can lead to heart disease has been
developed by a University of Tex-
as Medical School researcher.

Dr. Merrill Overturf, who spe-
cializes in the study of cardiovas-
cular disease, has bred about 50
offspring from a New Zealand
white rabbit whose exceptionally
high tolerance to cholesterol was
discovered six years ago.

An average rabbit that eats a
steady diet of bunny chow spiked
. with pure cholesterol would either

 

 

g ~s

Post photo by Craig Hartley

 

Merrill Overturf and assistant, Sheryl Smith, examine rabbits.

develop circulatory problems or
simply wouldn’t live as long as
these special rabbits, he said.
“What makes them unusual is
that they don’t develop high levels
of blood cholesterol," said Over-
turf. “Their vascular system is

completely protected —— they
don't develop coronary or any
vascular disease.”

High blood cholesterol levels
are “a major risk factor for arterio—

Please see UNIQUE/page 7B

 

Unique type of rabbit is found to resiSt
high cholesterol level in UT-Med study

Continued from page} B

sclerosis,” Overturf noted. “The
typical American diet contains lot
of junk food, so people get far too
much cholesterol.”

Besides enjoying their own kind .

of junk food, the pampered white
rabbits luxuriate to the peaceful
strains of Bach and Mozart on a
radio tuned to a classical music
station.

They used to enjoy country and
western music, but when the re-
ception turned poor for that sta-
tion they adapted well to classical,
said research associate Sheryl
Smith.

Rabbits serve as a good model
for the study of arteriosclerosis be-
cause, like human beings, their
blood cholesterol level goes up

when they consume a cholesterol-
rich diet, Overturf explained.

Only a small number of rabbits
and human beings are able to eat
large quantities of cholesterol-rich
food and not show an increase in
the level of blood cholesterol, he
said.

He speculated that further re-
search may reveal a marker in the
blood that could allow the early
identification of human beings
who are either highly susceptible
or highly resistant to cholesterol.

Such a marker would permit

special attention to be paid early
in life to the diets of those who
have a very low cholesterol toler-
ance, he explained. In addition,
certain drugs might be prescribed
to help guard against the ill effects
of cholesterol.

“Arteriosclerosis generally
takes a long time to develop,” he
noted. “Generally, symptoms
don’t appear before the age of
30.” .

The condition results from the
accumulation of fatty deposits in
the artery walls, producing a thick-
ening effect that can ultimately
block the blood flow to vital or-
gans including the heart, brain and
kidneys.

Exercise and a low-cholesterol
diet are the best defense against

~ arteriosclerosis, said Overturf, call—

ing the condition “the No. 1 health
problem in the United States to-
day.”

Besides a high-cholesterol diet,
high blood pressure and smoking
are the other major high-risk fac-
tors for the development of arte-
riosclerosis.

 

 

_J




4A / The Houston Post/ Monday, March 7, I988

. HEALTH/MEDICINE
____—_“

3 Opponents of using animals for researcl

 

By Dean Lokken
REurER NEWS SERVICE

SAN FRANCISCO - Grisly brochures

 

showing animals mutilated in the name of'

science. Raids under cover of darkness on
medical research laboratories. Hollywood
personalities haranguing authorities to de-
fend homeless cats and dogs from mad
scientists.

Rick Simpson. a 49-yearoold victim of
multiple sclerosis. decided he wasn't go—
ing to take these onslaughts by animal
rights activists anymore. He is fighting
back.

Simttison founded a movement gather
ing momentum across the United States
intent on protecting the right of research—

ers to experiment on animals.

He and an estimated 2,000 other mem—
bers of an organization called lncurably ill
for Animal Research. or iiFAR, believe
animal rights groups have gone too far
and are jeopardizing medical science.

“We want cures for our illnesses,"

Simpson said in a telephone interview
from his Tucson. Ariz. home. .

“It's selfish but. when you're incurably
ill. you're not just philosophizing. you‘re
dealing with the reality of finding a cure or
not finding a cure.” .

Simpson’s crusade dates back to 1985
when he was undergoing experimental
drug therapy~ at the University of Arizona
Medical Center. As he lay ill. a local am:-
rnal rights group picketed the campus.

protesting experiments on animals.

Simpson was outraged. “There are I’ll:
animal worshipers that are incurabh ill."
he recalled later. ’

The day after the demonstration. he
launched iiFAR (pronounced EYE-far),
vowing to fight back by spreading the
word about the good accomplished by an
imal experiments. Today, the organization
has chapters in Arizona, California. Flori-
da, and others forming in Oregon. Utah.
Georgia, Illinois. Michigan and Texas.

All of the group’s officers and most of
its board of directors suffer from some
incurable illness '-— AIDS. Alzheimer‘s
disease. cancer. cystic fibrosis and diarie-
tes. to name a few.

Steve Carroll, iiFAR executive director.

 

 

'—“—-—~—

now experience backlash

underwent a series of skin grafts after he

“—1

‘ was badly burned in a 1971 airplane acci-
dent. He is convinced the procedures. first
tested on animals. saved his life.

He recently turned up in Eugene. Ore.
to aid in the prosecution of a man charged
with breaking into University of Oregon
animal laboratories. In that incident. in-
truders claiming to represent the national
Animal Liberation Front smashed lab
equipment worth some $35,000 and stole
more than 100 rabbits. cats, rats and ham-
sters.

.iiFAR has the backing of the California
Biomedical Research Association, formed
by health groups and universities engaged
in biomedical research. According to Ex-
ecutive Director Sandra Bressler, radical

animal rights groups since .1983 have sto-
len more than 600 research animals and
caused $4.6 million damage to labs in
California.

Animal rights advocates charge that the
incurably ill are being recruited by organi—
zations like Bressler’s to act as their
spokesmen.

Bressler maintains that iiFAR is inde-
pendent of her association but says she

helps them distribute literature. “No—
‘body’s tWisting anyone's arms to get in-

volved.” she said. .

iiFAR has even gotten celebrities into
the act -— actor Charlton Heston and
Houston’s Dr. Michael DeBakey, one of
the world‘s leading heart transplant sur~
geons, have endorsed it.

 

 




TAMPA TRIBUNE - March 5, 1988

 

let your kids go wild today and they’ll get in to Lowry Park Zoo tor hall-
price. ’

Children ages 4 to ll will be admitted into the Zoo for only $ .15 by
wearing the mandrill mask which appeared on the backcover ol this

week’s triday extra!
0 First lllb kids will receive Tribune reporters notebooks, at the Zoo Reporters table

0 First lllllll people to visit the Tribune time capsule will receive Time line posters
For more details listen to Cleveland and lack on the it Morning Zoo.

K The Tampa 'Dribune
Tampa, Bay’s Newspaper

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

USA TODAY - March 10, 1988

 

A look at statistics that shape our lives

Pandas that live oUtside China

. Number of
Chapultepec Zoolo ical Park, gpa a
exico City ' f 7' '86.]
\

Ueno Zoological Gardens,Tokyo .: . -

 

 

 

Zoo 'of Madrid '

National Zoological Park, ~

A Washington, 0.0. “ . -
Zoological Park of Paris

Zoological Society of London

Berlin Zoological Park and a '1 ‘
Aquarium. West Berlin

Note: Though pandas are loaned to other

institutions. this reflects their permanent homes.

Source: National Wildlife Fund By Marcy Edsroth Mulliris, USA TODAY

 

 

 

 




 

TAMPA TRIBUNE - March 4, 1988

 

 

 

 

 

' The Dallas Morning News: Jan Sonnenmair

A kiss for Mom . ,

A newborn reticulated giraffe gives its mother a smooch who would like to suggest a name for the new arrival are
Thursday at the Dallas Zoo. The baby, a female, arrived encouraged to do so by dropping a line to Joe Cristman,
Wednesday, weighing in at a dainty 150 pounds. People Dallas Zoo, 621 E. Clarendon Dr., Dallas, Texas 75203.

 

     




ATLANTA CONSTITUTION

- March 12, 1988

2'3793F'01d boy killed in attack. by pit bull in DeKalb

By Anne Cowles and Kathy Scruggs
Staff Writers .

A 12-year-old boy was mauled to death
Friday by a pit bull terrier while he was
visiting a DeKalb County home, police
said.

The body of Chett Hyder was found be-
tween 3 and 4 pm. in a dog run where the
dog was chained, DeKalb police Lt. Rod-

ney Maddox said. ' ‘
The child’s mother, Sandra Whitley,

37. was in the house at 1379 South Indian
Creek Drive when the attack occurred,
said Margaret Jones. DeKalb County pub-
lic information ofﬁcer. Ms. Whitley didn’t
know the child had wandered outside and
discovered his body when the owner of
the house came home, she said. _

“They found the child in one of the
runs. pulled him from the run. covered
him with a piece of carpet and then called
police.“ Maddon said.

Dogs

 

From Page 1A

sections of the ordinance on dan-
gerous animals, responsible owner-
ship, keeping dogs on a restraint,
registration, tags and kennel licens-
ing, Ms. Jones said.
Ms. Whitley was charged with
reckless conduct and was being
held Friday night under $220 bond.

at the DeKalb County Jail, the po-

lice spokeswoman said.

It appeared that only one dog

attacked the youngster, but DeKalb
County animal control officers im-
pounded all nine dogs that had
been chained in the back of the
house, according to a supervisor.
, All of the dogs were chained at
the time of the attack, but DeKalb
County’s animal control ordinance
requires dogs to be on a leash,,in a
house or behind a fence at all
times, Ms. Jones said. '

“We have a very strong, very
strict, very detailed animal control
ordinance,” she said.

The ordinance also prescribes
how many dogs a resident can have
based on the size of his lot, a condi-
tion Hobbs is charged with violat-
ing, Ms. Jones said.

The DeKalb County Commission
strengthened its animal control or-
dinance twice after the Nov. 21,
1986, mauling death of 4-year-old
Billy Gordon Jr. by three pit bull
terriers,Ms. Jones said.

The owner of the dogs, Hayward
Turnipseed, 26, Was convicted of
manslaughter in February 1987 and
sentenced to five years in prison
and five years’ probation. The con-

Currie Hobbs. 33, the owner of. the
house, was charged with numerous Viola-
tions of DeKalb County's animal control
ordinance and is scheduled to appear in
DeKalb County Recorders Court on March
27, Ms. Jones said. The. relationship of
Hobbs and Ms. Whitley was undetermined
Friday night. . ‘

Hobbs was cited for allegedly Violating

See DOGS, Page 15A

i
. 3
L
D

ENEE HANNANé/Staﬁ

After the body of a 2-year-old boy was found in a dog run where nine
pit bull terriers had been kept, DeKalb police searched the area
where the animals were chained. Authorities impounded the dogs.

viction was the first of its kind in
Georgia.

A bill to regulate dangerous
dogs passed the General Assembly
on Monday and is awaiting the gov-
ernor's signature The bill would es-
tablish two classifications of dogs
that must be registered with local
officials: dangerous dogs, defined as
those that have severely injured a

human or have attacked or “aggres—
sively" bitten a person after heir:
classified potentially dangerous.
and potentially dangerous dogs, de-
fined as those that have bitten a hu-
man or exhibited dangerous
behavior.

The bill provides for stiff fines
and jail terms for violators.

 




DALLAS MORNING NEWS - March 5, 1988

Petting zoo owner
caught in red tape

What we
have here is
the story of
an unfor-
tunate turn
of events be-
“““ tween an old
,. .. man who

GORDON can. call up
BAXTER lions and
w some W811.
meaning bureaucrats at the state
capital.

The problem lies with a she-bear
by the name of LeAnn, who with a
pair of lions and a menagerie of wild
and domesticated animals and birds
are lovingly cared for in a little
home-built petting zoo located on
Dam B near Jasper. Children and
parents come there free, to the de-
light of Mr. and Mrs. Jack Witt and
family. The Witts take care of these
animals and wounded and injured
creatures that people bring to them.
“Mrs. Witt has healing hands,” says
Jack Witt, 68, of his wife.

Jasper merchants help support
the place. The cash flow is about nil.
But love is abundant all around.
Jack Witt can go up to the lion cage
and call the huge, haughty male lion
to him, rub his ears and get a great
rumbling purr. How many men do
you know who can call up lions?

Unfortunately for the Witts, the
word love does not appear anywhere
in the many pages of legislation by
which the Texas Parks and Wildlife

    

Department manages its affairs.
First, Jack Witt was given permis-
sion by the state to keep his bear.
About seven months later, the state
changed the rules. The department
never rescinded his original permit,
but demanded $300 for the first
year’s license and $550 more for the
following three years. Witt was out-
raged - and didn’t have the money
anyway.

In protest, he locked himself in-
side the bear’s cage and said, “Come
and get us.” It was a freezing night,
but Witt and the bear have plenty of
hair. He became a local media event.
Dr. Eric Penny of Texas State Optical
in Jasper gave the first $300 in re-
sponse to a public plea. Witt came
out of the cage, still mad.

He has a letter of May 12, 1987, in
which the Parks and Wildlife De-
partment granted him permission to
keep the bear, and the letter of Nov.
13 now saying he must buy the li-
cense or the state will come get
LeAnn. “Like hell they will,” Witt
growls.

The state officials involved have
never been to the little petting zoo.
And they don’t know that on Easter,
the Wests of Jasper donate all their
unsold Easter eggs, and busloads of
retarded children come, their voices
filling the air with laughter.

The state officials don’t know it,
but this is typical of the little zoo
that itself is now an endangered spe-
cies.

1

 

TAMPA TRIBUNE - March 10, 1988

Florida may be home
for gorilla preserve

GULF BREEZE (UPI) —- A re-
searcher who taught a gorilla to use
sign language said Wednesday that
she is considering setting up a 500-
acre gorilla preserve in Florida.

“We’ve been looking for a site
for a preserve for gorillas for our
project,” Dr. Francine “Penny” Pat-
terson said in a telephone interview
from her office in Woodside, Calif.
“Florida could be suitable.”

Patterson’s research with Koko,
a. 15-year-old 230-pound lowland go-
rilla, has been featured in National

’ Geographic magazine. Koko has

learned to use more than 500 signs
of the American Sign Language and
recognize 500 others.

Patterson said she plans to visit

the Panhandle when her schedule
permits in order to study some sites
and take a look at Colossus, a 600-
pound, 6-foot-6 gorilla that will be
arriving Monday at The Zoo in Gulf
Breeze.
Colossus has lived in a cage at Ben-
son’s Animal Farm in Hudson, N.H.,
for 20 years and has never seen an-
other gorilla. The Gulf Breeze zoo
bought him in October and built a
$75,000 habitat to house him.

Patterson wants to see Colossus
and take a look at the Panhandle
area to see if it’s a suitable location
for a 500-acre lowland gorilla pre-
serve Patterson has been trying to
establish for five years.

She said there are no gorilla
preserves in the United States, al-
though there are some in Africa.
But she said the political and eco-
nomic stability would make it desir-
able to set up one in the United
States.

“I’m intending to look at land in
order to find a suitable site,” said
Patterson, who has looked at other
parts of the United States. She is in-
terested in Florida “because the cli-
mate is good, high humidity and
temperatures are warm and this is
what gorillas need.”

Patterson said that based on
what she has been told, the best lo-
cation for a preserve would be
south of Orlando. In North Florida,
nighttime temperatures may be too
chilly for the primates, she said.

“It’s not automatically excluded.
1 would like to look at it,” she said.

But zoo director Pat Quinn does
not see the chill as a problem. He
said the solution would be shelters
on the preserve. He pointed out that
gorillas in northern states don’t
have a problem.

“I think she’ll be rocking at
some places in the northern part of
the county,” said Quinn, who men-

tioned both Escambia and Santa R0!

sa counties as possibilities.

Patterson said she envisions 500
acres or more with a buffer zone.
The interior would be a huge enclo-
sure with gorillas in a semi-natural
setting.

 




NEW YORK TIMES - February 28, 1988

eyond W° ite Rats and Rabbits

. .,.... - .A , » the Haskell Laboratory for Toxicology
" ” W say that the T131118 ' at E. l du Pont do Nemours 8: Compa-
goost of animal tests and the gradual W "We ought to be asking ourselves

‘ i ‘ , emergence of scientifically accepted ‘what exactly we need to know.”
. CW {CChnlqueS ’7 . alternatives are also crucial driving ' That kind of questioning is allowing

threduce the number i f ‘_ mm m mom‘s and at m

Despite regulatory and legal barri- 1 some animal activists to find a com-

- " if . ‘1 anon round
Of anlmaIS needed ers, a wide range of comganiol? arleg) - 1 . “Ag awful lot of the points made by
* . ' :turning to eXperiments “'1 ce C“ ’ the animal welfare movement are ex-
to teSt the Safety 0f genres. bacteria and living tissues in , lesseme but right,” said Shayne G. Gad,
‘ . t in“ tubes and t° computer Simula- a scientist at G. D. Searle 8: Company
new-drugs and ' Wham” 15°53: Shiiiiaiiiyg‘i‘ﬁsii‘ “m“ ‘i "’1” ”Km? ‘1”? 523313.331
0 1 , s nima s n ese '
Other I‘OdUCtS The shift has opened up manually 3112‘)”.
’ p :- - ‘ . g-:‘11,1orative niches for such tiny biotech , _ 1: “We are no longer regarded as
" ‘ ' ” ' ‘ ’ “ ‘ ° "f“m‘ii‘t’ii $5" ‘25 $323322: ‘ my,» said Henry Sim. a former civﬂ
ion .

Inc. of Carob Mass” rivalproduo ' 1 ﬁsh“, com 15“” and lime“ reformer
ers of cloned human skin cultures, one who has egg-god as the animal rights
at new testing tools.

~. ' respe business cir-

, d 3 may never 881 to the p01!“ Of. ' :g;m:: 0f msc‘twelcliuiggness to sup-

eliminating animals in testing bus port reforms short of abolition of test-
there is room for 1m rovemont, ” sat , “

Dr Charles F. Remlgardt, director of » mg It “53d to be almost macho to use

 

 

 

animals and not think anything about
it. Tuday, thinking about alternatives
is considorod the thing to do." ,

Indeed, five scientific journals deal-
ing with alternatives have sprung up in
the past three years and seminars on
the topic have multiplied.

Animal tests are used to Search for
potentially useful medicines, to estab:

 

 

Food and Drug Administration

 

ray BARNABY J. FEDER

 

OR years, an emotionally charged
ethical debate over the morality
and reliability of animal testing
has bedeviled the cosmetics, chemical
and pharmaceutical industries. Never-
;— ‘theless, the tests have remained firmly
entrenched as the underpinning of the.
nation’s efforts to insure that new
products work as intended and that
- consumers are not harmed by them.
Now, however, many companies are
gradually embracing a new generation
of research methods that reduce and in
some cases eliminate the need for ani-
mal testing. The change provides a
classic example of how the often con-
flicting concerns of company policy—
makers, consumers, government regu-
lators and pressure groups influence
.‘, the pace the; new technologies are
fadOpied 4 ’ ~
' the shift {(1 the new research meth-
sfods is partly 11 respoxre to the. relent~
":‘less {)1 otests by animal rights activists.
.— against the 111aimmg and deSLrucudn
{inf millions. of animals; cach'ycar 1n the
, nation’s corporate laboratories and m-
ﬂepen'dent testing facilities But re-

Testing eggs instead of a rabbit’s eyes. Above left, taking part in a Lethal Dose 50 test.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




lish that new drugs, cosmetics and
consumer products are safe and to
set standards for the handling of po-
tentially hazardous chemicals and
pesticides. Others are used in basic
research on diseases such as cancer
and AIDS, the environment and a
wide range of behavioral questions.

Estimates of how many animals
are used annually by researchers
vary widely - from 10 million to 100
million or more. Based on reports
filed with the Department of Agricul-
ture in 1983, the Congressional Office
of Technology Assessment estimated
that the overall number was “at least
17 million to 22 million” that year,
with rats and mice accounting for
about two-thirds of the total. The rest
included 180,000 dogs, 55,000 cats,
500,000 rabbits, a similar number of
guinea pigs and 60,000 monkeys,
chimpanzees and other primates.

Most scientists say that animals
will always be indispensable in some
fields of research. Indeed, some say
the development of new medicines
will require increased animal testing.
But animal usage has already de-
clined dramatically at some of the
giant consumer companies that have
been among the biggest targets of the
animal rights protesters.

Avon Products Inc. said it has re-
duced animal usage by 72 percent
since 1981, to just over 4,000 rodents
and rabbits a year. The Colgate-
Palmolive Company, a pioneer in
testing substances on chicken egg
membranes instead of rabbits, has
cut the use of laboratory animals by
90 percent. since 1982, to less than 500
a year at its Piscataway, N.J., re-
search center. And the Procter 8:

Gamble Company reduced animal u's-
age in testing consumer products by
60 percent from 1984 to 1986 and cut
overall usage by 22 percent despite
its expansion into pharmaceuticals
with the acquisition in 1985 of Rich—
ardson—Vicks Inc.

But formidable obstacles remain.
Government regulators have been ex—

—

Critics say many
animal tests are so
poorly designed
that their data

are suspect.

tremely cautious about relying on the
new methods, in part because of the
lack of consensus among scientists
about when an alternative test can be
certified as more accurate than an
animal test in predicting the impact
of chemicals on humans. Moreover,

train research employees to master
the new techniques.

“The general public is not very
aware of how much effort has gone

‘ into developing the science of toxicol-

ogy,” said Thomas Sabourin, the prin-
cipal resident scientist. in environ—
mental toxicology at the Battelle

<A «0

Institute, an independent consulting ‘

and research firm in Columbus, Ohio.
“There’s been a huge investment of
time and money in understanding
rats, for instance. It isn’t going to

change to another system overnight.”
The leading alternatives to animal

or “in vivo” tests are the “in vitro .

experiments conducted in test tubes.

Some of the tests can be partly auto-

mated so that results can be tabulat-
ed by computer. Computer simula-
tions are also becoming increasingly
attractive for their ability to screen
out potentially hazardous substances
early in the product development pro-
cess.

In addition, toxicologists have been
working to reduce the killing and
animal distress by refining such
widely used methods as the Lethal
Dose 50 and Draize tests. .

The Lethal Dose test provides a
rough picture of how toxic a sub-
stance is by determining the dose
needed to kill 50 percent of a test
group of rodents, which can number
up to 200. Some toxicologists believe
the necessary information could be
obtained by using fewer than 10 ani-
mals in many cases.

The Draize test projects how haz-
ardous a substance is to the human
eye by putting drops of a sample
solution on rabbits’ eyes, usually at a
concentration that a growing number
of toxicologists say is so strong that it
produces distorted results.

It is that kind of argument that
scores points with research execu-
tives, who are bothered less by criti-
cism of animal testing on moral
grounds than by charges that it is
scientifically suspect.

Animal testing critics argue that
many tests with animals are so poor-
ly designed, given the differences be-
tween humans and other animals,
that the resulting data are unreliable.
They say that data from alternative
experiments, and more studies of hu-
man exposure to hazardous sub-
stances and diseases, could answer
the same questions more accurately.
And they say that animal testing has
failed to flag some dangerous prod-
ucts, such as thalidomide, the drug
that caused thousands of birth de-
fects in the late 1950’s and early 60’s,
while leading to overestimates of the
danger posed to humans by other
products. ~

But scientists who support the ani-
mal tests say the tests are better
predictors of effects on humans than
the protesters believe and that the
tests are improving all the time as
the animals themSelves are better
understood. These scientists argue

l

“A lot of times when you look at
something in a dish, it is a very
different environment from an ani-
mal body that has complex mecha—
nisms to protect itself,” said Joseph
,E. LeBeau, director of health and

environmental sciences at the Dow
Chemical Company. “There are
many different layers of cells and
once something gets in, there’s a bio-
chemistry lab that detoxifies, ex~
cretes and so forth.”

The experimenters also say that
such widely cited examples of the
shortcomings of animal testing as the
thalidomide case typically point to
the need for better animal testing
rather than an end to it.

“Thalidomide was tested after"
ward on Rhesus monkeys, which
showed the same effects as humans,”
said Dr. Peter J. Gerone, director of
the Tulane University Medical Cen-
ter’s Delta Regional Primate Re-
search Center in Covington, La. “An
experiment with 20 monkeys would
have saved 20,000 children from their
deformities.”

Nevertheless, the experimenters
agree that new alternatives 7can
sometimes reveal more vital infor- '
mation than standard animal tests.
Frequently, in-vitro tests or comput—
er simulationsﬁielp scientists explore
why products work instead of simply
what they will do.

“If we can do that, we can use
fewer‘animals,” said Dr. Robert A.
Scala, senior scientific adviser to Ex-
xon Biomedical Sciences Inc.

NE alternative that Colgate-
Palmolive believes to be prom-
ising involves removing part. of

the shell of a fertilized chicken egg
and putting the test substance on the
exposed membrane. Damage to the
heavily veined membrane can be cor-
related to the potential for irritation
to the. human .sltin...

I.‘£{EA§ 3;}

_Another test, developed at Rock?-
feller University by Prof. Ellen Roz--

enfreund with support from Revlon

lnc., categorizes a substances toxic.-
ity on the basis of the damage it

" causes cell membranes. The cell cul-

tures are placed in rectangular slides

. with 96 depressions and exposed to
varying concentrations of the test

substance. Those that are damaged

~ absorb a red dye. In contrast to tests

in which a substance is placed on a
rabbit’s eye, the results can be read
mechanically and precisely. '
Both of these alternatives are being
studied as potential replacements for

' the Draize method, which has been a

leading target of animal rights
groups since 1980. That was when Mr.
Spira organized demonstrations at
Revlon’s New York headquarters and
put together an advertising ca mpaigr
asking “How many rabbits does Rex:-

V '. E. lon blind for beauty’s sake?” Late;
that year, Revlon gave $750,000 If

start the search for an alternative a'

many companies are reluctant to
sharply restrict or abandon animal
tests until everyone does, fearing that
being a pioneer would make it harder
to defend against product liability
lawsuits. And it will take years to

that the interaction of new drugs or
chemicals with something as compli-
cated as a human eye or digestive
tract 'cannot be measured in test
tubes using simple organisms.

Laboratory technicians injecting test substances.

 

 

 




  

Rockefeller, kicking off a string of
major corporate contributions, most-
ly through such trade groups. as the
Soap and Detergent Assocxation and
the Cosmetics, Toiletry and Fra—
grance Association.

Radical animal rights groups say
that the alternatives are already su-
perior to the Draize test, which in—
volves subjective estimations that
vary from laboratory to laboratory
about how much irritation a sub-
stance has caused in the rabbit’s eye.

“One reason the cosmetics compa-
nies like animal tests is that they are
so bad it allows them to put anything
they want on the market,” said Susan
Rich, a representative of the People
for the Ethical Treatment of Am-
mals, a Washington-based organiza-
tion with 250,000 members.

As is usual when established prac-
tices are challenged, scientists and
regulators are holding out for exhaus-
tive scrutiny of the new alternatives.

Reflecting that cautious stance, the
proposed change at the top of the
agenda of the three Federal agencxes
most involved with testing — the
Food and Drug Administration, the
Consumer Product Safety Commis-
sion and the Environmental Protec—
tion Agency — does not involve an in-
vitro test at all, but rather Procter &
Gamble’s refined version of the

Draize test. The company has been
arguing for years that solutions 10
times more diluted than those com—
monly used in the test —— and thus far
less painful for the rabbits -- corre-
late better with the known impact of
irritants on humans than the stan-
dard test. Regulators, however, have

repeatedly demanded more evidence.

The dispute has highlighted the
lack of agreement among scientists
over what constitutes proof that a

 

‘An experiment
With 20 monkeys
would have saved
20, 000

ohiIdren from
their deformities. ’

Making things even murki'er is the
fact that, in most cases, Government
regulations do not specify that animal
testing must be used to prove product
safety. Nonetheless, Federal agen-
cies have typically refused to endorse
any alternatives. Thus, while compa-
nies are free to use in-vitro or com-
puter screening systems to select
which products they will develop,
they are reluctant to rely on them
completely.

“When you are past screening, the
problem of regulatory acceptance of
alternatives comes in,” said Dr. Gad
of Searle. “If you do something that
isn’t accepted, you’ve lost a lot of
time and money.” ,

The fear of product liability litiga-
tion is an even stronger barrier to
change. There are cases where toxi-
cologists would like to use in-vitro
tests in the early stages of product
development but top management
has been “aggressively not interest-
ed” because of potential legal prob-
lems, according to Paul Wegner, di-
rector of marketing for Clonetics, the
San Diego company that is selling

cloned human skin cultures for test-
ing applications. “They don’t want
anything in the records that might
contradict the animal tests. They
want to make sure they stick to the
one approved method and do nothing
else.” .

Nevétheless, as studies replicat-
ing earlier findings appear and the
sensitivity of the in-vitro tests to
more substances is demonstrated,

the pressure for change is growing.

“In~vitro technology has already
proved simpler, cheaper and more
predictive in many cases,” said Dr.
Alan M. Goldberg, head of the Center
for Alternatives to Animal Testing at
the Johns Hopkins University in Bal-
timore. “That’s a hard combination

 

'

l

G
..
1

a

Ew- ”‘

to beat.”

Some of that thinking is beginning
to translate into economic activity.
Some 150 smaller cosmetics compa-
nies have carved out a market among
animal rights backers with new prod-
ucts that use only ingredients already
approved by the FDA, allowing
them to be sold without more testing.

ERHAPS the ultimate sign of

the times is the decision of

Charles River Laboratories
Inc., the world’s leading producer of
laboratory animals for toxicology
testing, to get a foothold in the devel-
oping in-vitro market. The Wilming-
ton, Mass.-based subsidiary of
Bausch 8: Lomb Inc. licensed the
right, to market frozen mouse embry-
os and hamster ovas from Rio Vista
International Inc. of San Antonio last
July.

The embryos and ovas are used by
clinics specializing in in-vitro fertili—
zation for women who have trouble
getting pregnant. The mouse embry-
os serve as a check on the quality of
the fluids in which human eggs are
stored and the hamster ova are used
to test the ability of the human sperm
to penetrate an egg.

“We are currently looking at some
others as well,” said Dr. Melvin Balk,

Charles River’s executive vice presi-

'dent

Less established companies have
.. also begun to search for products that

 

 

could help toxicologists cut back on
an imal usage.

Health Designs Inc. of Rochester
has taken the lead in commercial
applications of computers for toxicity

'- problem:;_W ' it began marke
, mg. T‘opkat, a software program that
iestimates a chemical’s toxicity and
its ability to cause cancer, mutations
and irritation from its structure. The

*~ - 7 ,_ H» -— - 4-.

q

. .;.~. :3; ‘-

._ ...-

7-. \. W;- _ a ._ k. _

 

....................

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

  
 

  

new test is a valid alternative to using 3 g
animals. ' _

“It takes several years for a test to
be developed to the point. where it
becomes a candidate for a validation
study and then the validation stage
itself is controversial,” said Mr. Sa-
bourin at the Battelle Institute. Bat-
telle, for example, is using eggs ex-
tracted from the South African . _ . . :
clawed frog to test chemicals known . . .' . _ ; .
to produce birth defects. The idea IS ' _ , _ . .
to see if the scientists can duplicate
the results of similar tests on rats and
rabbits. “No one seems to agree on

, exactly how validation should be per-
‘ formed,” Mr. Sabourin 5319.-. _‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
  

 
 
  
 
  

 
 
  
 

;.-,v.-.~;;->>2-;-;-‘xw' ' wax-

.‘P” .

ii

pira speaking in New York against the Lethal Dose 50 test in 1984.

   
 

 

 




m is, in a sense, a kind o:
clearinghouse of past expeiietnecqj:
Kurt Enslein, the company s, pltsxof
dent, said that because the resu

progra

so much animal testing are kept pri-

vate for competitive reasOns the ef~
fort to gather enough data to design
ropkat took nearly a decade.
monetics, a privately held compa-
ny founded in 1984, began selling its
Epipack skin cultures to toxicologists
in 1986. It had developed its expertise
for cloning cells while working on
skin replacements for burn patients.

Organogenesis, a leading rival, is
developing a product called Testskin
that is likely to be considerably more
expensive than Epipack but will more
closely mimic the structure and be-
havior of living skin, a complex three-
layered organ.

Still another company, the National
Testing Corporation of Palm Springs,
Calif., is seeking acceptance of it By-
tex kits as an alternative to the
Draize test ior screening product de~
velopments. The kit includes a com-
pound of 53 proteins that resembles
the composition of the eye. A solution
containing the compound will turn
cloudy if exposed to a substance that
would irritate the eye. National Test-
ing claims that tests in the past two
years have shown a 96 percent corre»
lation with the Draize method. And it
says it can test three concentrations
of a chemical for $99.50, compared
with more than $1,000 for a Draize
test of similar scope.

“I am not a staunch animal right-
ist,” said Dr. Christopher Kelly, the
company‘s owner, “but this seemed
like a wide-open field.” E

.v,

 




ATLANTA JOURNAL - March 14, 1988

. Win—r f‘l’ﬁ‘lmm-VUI . l M «19" «A .

 

A It
..,..z..hl../..v.7

74$... _

.9... 5...; .. ,g . , . . .. . i
a. . ./ 4 V . _ . .
., . .5) . . .
Wu. :7/ r7 /.I../I.r.. . . . . . . . /
I

75/.

.. l . . . l f

sat

/
f,
/. //...,/.u/.. I. .

O

JONAS JORDAN/Special

‘We used to have three cottonmouth
she says

’

. H5...

4..
#1..»- v

t

A .U u.“ I . 1..

2'1 .-

r...

. .....////..

a daddy and a baby,

a mommy,

around her neck

e,
m
0
h
e
k
a
n
S
e
l
t
t
a
r.
a

z... ...... ..

pes

. 7 "7.

Ashlee Lansdell, doesn’t

. Ir .1
. . 1/. I . . .. .

I: I) I p.
. 1. 1%WWMM0WW
.wxﬁmmpﬂmw any”... x

a. . 1......
Wu. R N.
w”. .

.

l Teenager,

10113

1a Nat

flinch as snake handler Ken Darnell dra

Miss Georg

 

u
d
n
u
o
r
_ t
a
t
s
a
e
b

1

Beauty meets

 

 




p: i,"

\<.
lg“.

dback for beau ty quec

1amon

gles a d

ickland dan

y Str

 

Dann

 

I
l

ia

A
\r

 

JONAS JORDAN/Spe

iamondback rattlesnake at roundup

“I don’t mind holding a boa or

another non-poisonous snake,”
A record crowd of about 25,000

Miss Georgia, Kelly Jerles, got
people put aside their heebie-jee-

the hang of it, too, after a while.

See SNAKES, Page 11A

she shouted “C’mon, sucker!” at
she said later, “but these make
me a little timid.”

bies Saturday and Sunday to View
snake-milking and handling exhi-
bitions, watch the weighing and
measuring of the snakes and learn
more about the Eastern diamond-

ing the VIP snake hunt Saturday,
the hissing reptile.

from the end of a long hook dur-

who at 16 is already an old hand
Deftly balancing a 4-foot rattler

at snake-handling.

lked from a d

Staﬂ Writer
CLAXTON, Ga. — An odd mix,
beauty queens and pit vipers, but
the two were close companions

over the weekend at the let an-

 

By David Corvette

15 m1

“We used to have three cotton-

From Miss Georgia to Miss
Sweet Onion, they mustered their
courage and lined up to pose for

Miss Georgia National Teen-
mouths at home, a mommy, a dad-

ager, Ashlee Lansdell, was un-

daunted.

 

touching or holding some of the
192 slithering serpents captured
for this year’s roundup.

dy and a baby,” said the high
school sophomore from Chamblee,

nual Rattlesnake Roundup in Ev-
photographs, trying to smile while

ans County.

Venom

Snakes

F mm Page 9A

back rattlesnake that thrives in the,
Southeastern United States. 2
Organized in 1967 after 8-year-
old David Wiggins was struck three
times and nearly killed by a rattler,
the roundup has grown to become
Georgia’s largest snake festival, at-
tracting visitors from across the
country. ,In addition to the snake
events, the roundup features a
beauty pageant, parade, music and
120 arts and crafts exhibits.
Sponsored by the Evans County
Wildlife Club to promote public
awareness of the South’s largest
snake, the roundup actually begins

 

in December, when snake hunters
begin coaxing the diamondbacks
from the gapher tortoise burrows
they inhabit.

The snakes are stored live in
cages until the second Saturday in
March, when they arrive by the
bucketful at the cavernous tobacco
warehouse where the roundup
events are held. Hunters receive
cash awards for the most snakes
caught and the heaviest, and every-
one turning in snakes that are more
than 2 feet long gets $4.50 per foot.

The total of 192 snakes this year
was far short of the. 354 last year.

 

and the record 373 in 1980, probaoiy
because of wet weather, said Wild~ .
life Club President James Hutche-I
son.

Once “harvested” —— the club’s
euphemism for catching, milking
and skinning the snakes — the ven-
om is donated for medical research
and the hides are sold to an Oklaho-
ma firm that turns them into shoes,
belts and handbags.

The roundups don’t make much
of a dent in South Georgia’s snake
population, said veteran snake
hunter Danny Strickland.

“Snakes have a purpose here
just like you and I,” he said. “If we
didn’t have snakes, we’d be overrun
with rats and other rodents, so
we’re really not trying to eradicate
them.”

Homer Patterson, 68, who
earned $320 for his snakes this 1
year, said a good snake hunter nev-
er loses respect for his quarry.

“I’ve been doing it over 30
years, and I’m still scared to death
of ’em,” he said. “I never touch ’cm
with my hands.”

“Yeah,” chimed in his 14-year-
old grandson, James Patterson, him-.
self a snake hunter for the past six,
years. “The only time he ever did,
he grabbed one by the tail, and~
slung him out of the hole. It was the.
first time I’d ever seen a rattle-
snake t‘ly.” ‘

 

 




 

inch, depending on your truck
and costs $17. Find it at your local
1 pet shop or call 1-800-637-LOVE.

 

B UCKLE UP

Seat belt laws protect you and

your passengers from harm in car.

accidents. But do you realize that
. your pet can be thrown through

the windshield and injured, per-

haps fatally, as easily as a small
. child?

And there is also the problem
of your pet simply jumping out of
a car or truck window into traffic.
It happens everyday.

The Pet Love Harness is a seat
belt for pets that attaches to your
regular car seat belt. ‘It secures
your animal in case of sudden
stops and even keeps her steady
during those hairpin turns you

, sometimes are forced into making.

Developed by Gary Murray of
Reno, Nevada, whose own dog was
killed in an accident when his car
blew a tire. Pet Love Harnesses are
endorsed by the US. Humane So—
ciety and the Society for the Pre-
vetnion of Cruelty to Animals.
They are adjustable and double as

a leash and in no way can choke
or otherwise hurt your pet.

They come in four sizes and
cost about $20. You can find them
at your local pet store or call 1-
800-637-LOVE.

 

THE ~DEKALB NEWS/ SUN - March it), 1988

Plan To

Evans Revives

Ban

Pit Bulls Here

By STEVE TEASLEY
There may be another attempt
to ban the pit bull dog in DeKalb
County.

District 3 Commissioner John
Evans, who pushed unsuccessfully
for such legislation twice last year,
said Monday he will revive the
proposal.

The south DeKalb board mem-
ber reported that he would put the
idea back in the laps of fellow
commissioners at a work session
this week.

Depending on the kind of poten-
tial support he saw, Mr. Evans
said he very well could place a
speciﬁc law up for a formal vote at
the commission’s next business
meeting on March 22.

The renewed Evans interest in
the legislation was sparked by the
March 11 killing of a twoyear-old
DeKalb boy by a pit bull.

“We’re talking about animals
killing human beings,” said Mr.
Evans, “And, I think we have got
to do something to help the hu-
mans.”

.IN 1986, AFTER a four—year-old
south DeKalb youngster was killed
by three other pit bulls, Mr. Evans
ﬁrst proposed his outright ban on
that particular breed.

But, the county attorney, Sid
Johnson, warned the board at the
time against exiling a specific
breed. He said. such legislation
probably could be successfully
challenged in court on constitu-
tional. grounds.

The majority of board members
agreed. Instead of the ban, they
opted for broader, “dangerous ani-
mal” legislation.

And, later in 1987, after another
pit bull nearly killed an elderly
Stone Mountain woman, the com-
mission strengthened that law and
its existing leash law for all dogs.

Both times. Mr. Evans tried to
squeeze through the pit bull ban
either in conjunction with or in-
stead of the other laws. But, both

times the only support he got was‘
from Commissioner Brince Man-
ning.

ACCORDING TO Mr. Evans,
DeKalb government “can’t worry
about going to court. We have a
problem. And, this (the ban) is one
way to address it. We don’t know
that it won’t hold up (in court).”

Meanwhile, he says he has
asked the county public safety de-
partment for all the information on
the latest case.

Aside from the outright ban, he
says he also wants to know why
the county’s dangerous animal law
failed to provide protection for the
slain two-year-old and what kinds
of violations have been alleged
against the owner.

The dead child is Chett Hyder.
His body was found Friday after-
noon outside a house on South
Indian Creek Drive in southeast
DeKalb.

Authorities said he apparently
wandered into an area of the yard
where nine pit bulls were kept. His
mother, visiting the home at the
time, reportedly was unaware that
her child had strayed from the
home. She, Sandra Whitley, 37,
faces reckless conduct charges.

The dogs’ owner, Currie Hobbs,
33, has been charged with a num-
ber of violations of the county’s
animal control laws. He’s sched-
uled to appear in DeKalb Recor-
ders Court March 27 to answer
those charges.

Among the allegationsare hav-
ing the dogs illegally chained and
having more dogs than the
county’s ordinances permit.

All the Hobbs’ animals were
impounded by DeKalb animal con-
trol ofﬁcers although authorities
said it appeared that only one of
the dogs attacked the youngster.

The owner of the three pit bulls
that attacked and killed four-year-
old Billy Gordon here in November
of 1986 was sentenced to five years
in prison and five years on proba-
tion.

 




BOSTON GLOBE - March 11, 1988

 

 

 

 

The Tucker Tux, pictured, of-
fers a stunning pleated white bib
and evening buttons and goes for
$26 to $36.

The Buffy Bow, for your female
canine friend, closes with elegant
evening buttons and costs about
$24." There are even designer fur
coats starting at $150.

Says the owner of the com-
pany, Deborah Crane, “These
fashions not only provide
warmth. but also allow the most
discriminating pets to be as styl-
ish as their owners, and appear in

“public wearing something other
than the same old fur.”

For a catalog, or more informa- -
tion, write Creature Comforts, 108
High St.. Hingham. MA 02043, or
call 740-4179. ‘

 

 

 

UT ON THE DOG

You might think you are doing
the best for your pet. Feeding him.
An occasional run in the park. A
trip to the vet’s for shots. But are
you letting his wardrobe go to the
dogs?

Creature Comforts is a local
mail—order concern that designs a
line of outerwear for that dog
about town featuring everything

from overcoats for those chilly

evening walks to tuxedo bibs for
your posh dinner parties.

The Tucker Tag-a—long coat,
for examble. is loo-percent wool.
double breasted and fully lined.
sporting brass buttons and a

change pocket to carry along a ,

biscuit to woo the cute poodle that

hangs out by the hydrant. De- :-

pending on size, it runs from $31
to $56.

 

V.

 

KEEP TR UCKIN ’
A One of the scariest things i see

on the highway are dogs in the
back of trucks. They always seem

”to be about ready to jump out, es-

pecially at red lights or in traffic

? jams. In California, the law states

 

 

that your pet must be strapped
into your truck.

Pet Love Products also markets
the Pick—Up Belt that holds your
dog safely in the back of your
pick-up truck. This belt works
only with the Pet Love Harness.
and fits through the chest — not
around the neck — so that the pet
cannot fall out.

You use a screwdriver to install
this belt in your truck. The belt
comma in two sizes, 60 and 72

 




«behalf of the majority

' (what’s left of them) honing our

..~74:.--At the

TAMPA TRIBUNE - March 13, 1988

1",very Few HunterSTreat Wildlife With. #8

‘93:" There is a distinct line that separates

:hunters from non-hunters. As an avid out— '

,doersman and hunter, I write this letter on
~ of hunters who, like
:myself, gain maximum enjoyment from
spending time in the Florida woodlands
hunting
$kills.

same time, we show respect for

,0 wildlife as well as the woods with all of

-. have-to offer just

their majestic intricacies. ,

Indeed, it is a lonely hunter who can say
that he does not put forth some effort to
ensure that his children and grandchildren
will be able to enjoy the woods and all they
as he has experienced
those things that become the basis for
meaningful conversation, tall tales and

ill-Concern and Disrespect » .

" name. Frank

.I— 'w «.m, M‘ W
H .Vd'v-I—prc'“ J

priceless memories.

'It needs to be stated clearly that hunters
do not deny there are, unfortunately, many
people who give hunting and hunters a bad
Sargeant’s introductory para-
graphs in his outdoor column regarding the
anti-hunting faction didn’t do much to
thwart this stereotype. ,
, It also cannot be denied that there are
those on the other side of the hunting issue,
such as the letter writers who wrote to the

Tribune, who strengthen the anti-hunter ste—

reotype as well. .. r

'In any event, when an unethical party
takes to the woods, most of us hunters can
only hOpe that we are not hunting in the
same county. The potential for an irreSpon-
sible group of yahoos to destroy hunting for

"“"“‘- —m‘..¢r“.- ‘

Wt-rently at 800,000 (Florida Game 8: Fresh

~ Water Commission). The
‘- to biologists, topped out and can’t expand
'- any further due to the rapid development

; crete is poured? They . .
Rather, they struggle to survive in a srtua—

herd is, according

of wild lands. .
So where do the deer go when the con-

don’t buy condos.

'tion which, were it not for hunters, would
more than likely result in slow death and
inevitable eradication of the herd due to

disease, predation, and an outstripping of
the food supply.

I attribute the survival of the deer herd

to biologists and hunters. And rightly so.
r management (hunting),
planting
we have been able-to sustain a healthy herd

lots, and disease control, "

~—.— .v. .....

themselves and for the rest of us is truly
frightening. This remains one of the mic
solved problems for those of us who count
the outdoors and deer hunting among life’s
great satisfactions.

Through funding obtained from the pur-
chase of hunting licenses, contributions,
and the Pittman-Robertson Act of 1937,
wildlife biologists and other experts have
been able to come up With modern wildlife
management techniquesthat are passing
muster with ﬂying colorsfffc, -

As a result, conservativ”‘~;estimates place
the North American whitetail deer herd at
about 16 million -—- the highest population
ever recorded (US. Department of Wild-
life: 1987 Report).

The Florida whitetail population is cur-

at its carrying capacity. The end result is,
as Sargeant stated, a total of more than 4.5
million acres of wildlands preserved from
the “human crush in our explosively grow-

ing state.”

The data are there —-— much too volumi-

nous and complex for me to try to convey

in full —- and all in strong support of effec-

tive hunting of deer and other Wildlife.

The ramifications of such programs and
studies? Very simply, our children and
grandchildren will be able to participate in
an American heritage with all of the oppor-
tunities and enthusiasm enjoyed by those of
us who have gone before them.

RICK TERRANA
Tampa

 




HOUSTON POST - March 9, 1988

eserve better

,EPA is knuckling under on a reasonable .

“ :By Michael Zimmerman

 

Federal endangered species legislation is quite clear:
) ‘Nobody is to engage in activity jeopardizing endan-
' .gered species or their habitats. The rationale for the
Cilegislation is equally clear. Species listed as being en—
, [dangered have small population sizes and are perilous-
”: ,ly close to extinction. Since extinction is forever, most
of us agree that to destroy another species is morally

‘ reprehensible.

The Environmental Protection Agency, recognizing
that pesticides are designed to kill organisms, has
slowly come to the conclusion that indiscriminant us-

" age of pesticides might have negative effects on some

endangered species. Pushed by environmental groups.
the EPA has developed a pesticide-labeling program
‘ designed to protect those rare animals and plants. The
, program is a model of simplicity. Pesticide container
,labels would list those counties in which an endan—
gered species might be threatened by use of the chemi-
cal. Detailed maps of endangered species at the county
‘ievei would be available and a particular pesticide
icould still be used in a listed county if the county
agricultural agent determined that its use did not have
an impact on the endangered species.

What makes the program so reasonable is its recog-
,nition of the necessary balance between the protection
_of endangered species and the agricultural need for

pesticides. Use of specific pesticides would be prohibit-
ed only in the particular locations where endangered
species might be threatened. Unfortunately, however,
" the EPA, under pressure from farm groups, seems to
be backing away from this project. It has already put
the project’s implementation on hold until the 1989
growing season at the earliest.

Why are farm groups opposed to the pesticide label-
ing program? Don Rawlins, director of natural re-
sources for the American Farm Bureau Federation, one
of the groups leading the opposition to the labeling
program, demonstrates that criticisms of the program
are both practical and philosophical. On the practical
level, Rawlins claims that we simply do not yet have
enough information to proceed. He believes that en-
dangered species are often not found where they are

thought to be and that we have little hard kno‘wledg‘eof:

the effects that specific pesticides might have on them.

He also claims that the government has not fully as-
sessed the economic impact of banning pesticides in
, various locations.

*__

On the philosophical level, Rawlins simply does not
believe that many endangered species are worthy of -"

protection. “When a speCies’ time has come,” he says,

“perhaps there is nothing we should do." He goes on

to say that “Man may not be perfect, but he is a

._. ....4.........u we. yawn-w ...

Vb". ..-.‘_ A.,....,..‘._._.-- -w

superibr species, and nets the one "‘we‘need to ro-
tect. Perhaps most telling, however, is his attiffide
toward-those few speCIes that he does deem worthv of
protection. Farmers shouldn’t be presumed guilty.”

he claims. “The burden of proof must be on the gov- ‘

ernmejnt." Rawlins makes it clear that use sh ’
be limited unless and until the pesticide in ques(fiuolg trill:
been documented to have caused a serious problem for
an endangered species. 8 H
On the practical level, Rawlins is not entirely wrong
We do not yet know as much about each endangeied
speCies as we should. However, the US. Fish and
Wildlife SerVice feels that the pesticide labeling project
is worth pursumg given our present knowledge. When
and _if farm groups can document errors. they Can
. vernment to change the pesticide-use

at will jeopa survival. eri (l.-
The Endangered Species Act is the law and “£15 5n;-

7.....philosophical disagreements that the American Farm‘

Bureau Federation, or anyone else. has with it should

have no effect on its implementation or enforcement

Furthermore, any serious commitment to protecting

. Wildlife must be conservative in nature. Pesticides
hntzafe before they are allowed to come

. . e enVironment, not afte . '- 7

are dealing With vanishingly small populafiomhgf) emf:
dangered speCies we cannot afford to act only after

8 C n»

The pesticide labeling project has the potentiallo

. improve the health of man end . _
, thus the EPA shou y angered specres and

‘ increases the chances of extinction and, with each

ld move forward with it. Delay

extinction, we lose a bit of our own humanity. It is

, ironic and distressing that the federal agency responsi-

ble for the protection of endangered s '

peCies has bowed
to pressure from lobbying grou 5 ex ressin c l
disdain for our threatened wildlife. p f g omp ete

Dr. Zimmerman is a rat ' - E
Oberlin, Ohio. 9 essor of biology at Oberlin College,

9€§li<>idé4tébeling pro

gran

 




COMMITTEE ON BANKING. COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY

FINANCE AND URBAN AFFAIRS €011ng 5 5 of thz ﬁnitzd gtatzﬁ suacoMMITTEEs;

SUBCOMMWEES‘ IMMIGRATION, REFUGEES.
AND INTERNATIONAL LAW

“NA"C‘AL 'Nsnwﬂous PATRIC K L. SWI N DALL ADMINISTRATIVE LAw AND

SUPERVISION. REGULATION
AND INSURANCE GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
331 CANNON BUILDING
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE. CRIMINAL JUSTICE

TRADE AND MONETARY POLICY WASHINGTON, DC 20515
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (202) 2254272 SELECT COMMITTEE ON AGING

INSTITUTIONS AND FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE:

NOUSING AND COMMUNITY RETIREMENT INCOME AND
DEVELOPMENT EMPLOYMENT

ECONOMIC STABILIZATION Ma r Ch 1 5 , l 9 8 8

Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, Ga 30345

Dear Connie:

Thank you very much for the copies you sent me recently regarding
your continued support for the humane treatment of animals. I
appreciate your taking the time to send me the letters.

As you know, there are several bills that have been introduced
this Congress designed to prevent the inhumane treatment of animals.
I agree with you that animals should be treated as humanely as
possible, and any abuses should be carefully investigated. While I
believe animal testing provides tremendous advancements towards
improving human health, I believe that such tests should be conducted
in the most humane manner and only for useful purposes.

I am well aware of your position on these issues and will

certainly keep your views in mind when voting or speaking with my
colleagues. Thank you again for taking the time to write me about
these issues. Please contact me again about other matters important
to you.

r
.’
I
.’
I'

LSAT DALL
é" er of Congress

PLS/jof

GEORGIA DISTRICT OFFICES:
NEWTON OFFICE

DEKALB OFFICE NORTH FULTON OFFICE ROCKDALE OFFICE
160 CLAIRMONT AVENUE IOOI CAMBRIDGE SQUARE 955 BANK STREET IIIS USN5R1SITREET
SUITE 140 SUITE A. HWY 9 CONEERShg-Azggiml comm?” GA 30209
4 4 .
DECATUR. GA 30030 ALPHARETTA. GA scam I I «04) 787-81")

(#04) 373—3509 (404) 475-7897

 




$5sz Emﬁm - 239 H? 5%

 

 

 

 

.

00320

23:51? _o<m

> @260. :02 :5 03w 0* :3 max 2.3 UK No? 39: can 203.79: 932.3. .26
=6 :81 $61333 n: <<=o=xm <<01Q 29 558. $03 mgcaovr

 

 

 

 




Insemmat

who has never had contact w

1(JII.

ith other gorillas, by direct mating or as a donor for arti

icia‘

E:
U)
(D
:3
H
H a
H
(D
2"
...;
(D
OD
ﬂ
H
'3'
(D
'6
$3)
a
F
S
E
F)
3‘
S3.
0
’D
(b
CL
53‘
CI}
1—?
a.“
‘33.
2?.
if)
:3
(D
ﬂ.
0
S
:3
m
v.1
3‘
O
”U
(D
CD
H.
O
U
H
(D
(D
Q.
C)
E
O
U)
U)
E
:1)

Colossus
N.H.,

’

3600

-pound lowland gori

lla

9

yesterday to fly by chartered plane to hi

F3

left the former
new

Be

nson‘

home at The Zoo

Globe photo/John Mo
5 Animal Park i
, a private facili

ty

nea
Pensacola, Fla. Since he was captured in Africa as. a baby, the 20-year-old gorilla had spent

n Hudson

1'

He

rn

 

 

 

 

 

 

l

A GORILLA’S GOUDB}

7F

:

BOSTON GLOBE — March 14, 1988

 




DETROIT FREE PRESS - March 13', 1988

A couple of proposed laws and a

 

panel admitted its decision was cutting

Anti-hunters irk sportsmen

court case you ought to‘know about:

Two very different handgun control
measures are being touted in Con-
gress.

One, sponsored by Sen. Howard
Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, is called an anti-
terrorism bill, or the “plastic gun” bill,
S. 465. This bill outlaws the manufac-
ture and sale of any gun that could
threaten airport security, but does it by
saying all guns manufactured and sold
in the US. must contain at least 8.5
ounces of steel. Fine, except that defi-
nition includes many models of hand-
guns —— .22, .25 and even .38 calibers
—— made by such companies as Smith &
Wesson, Colt and Beretta, and popular
among shooters today.

Even Metzenbaum, long an outspo-
ken proponent of disarming the Ameri-
can public, eventually learned that plas-
tic guns don’t exist. His bill makes sure
they never will, yet it edges into
confiscating many other handguns in
the process — a favorite tactic of
Metzenbaum and Sen. Ted Kennedy,
D—Mass.

Metzenbaum’s bill doesn’t allow
transfer of ownership of said guns; all
will become the unpaid-for property of
the government.

Additionally, Metzenbaum’s bill al-
lows the Secretary of the Treasury to
ban any other firearms he thinks vio-
late airport security. Could it eventual-
ly lead to an owner’s never being able
to travel by airplane, even with
checked firearms?

On the other side, Sen. James Mc-
Clure, R—Idaho, has offered a true
airport security bill by taking a two-fold
approach. First, it bans guns that are
undetectable in airport screening sys—
tems (none is, today). Plus it mandates
that lax security practices be fixed.

During recent hearings on both
bills, airport security experts repeated-
ly testified that the problem is not
undetectable guns, but rather security
procedures that are insufficient and
security personnel who are indifferent
to their jobs.

Some potentially alarming news is
that a Washington federal appeals
court recently reversed a lower court
ruling that the Humane Society of the

 

 

 

 

 

United States —- a vociferous anti-
hunting organization — could sue the
Department of the Interior over sport
hunting in national wildlife refuges.

"Most refuges, including two in Michi-

gan, have carefully controlled hunting
programs for a variety of wildlife —
and have had for decades, ever since
sportsmen began funding their pur-
chase and enhancement.

The HSU S has said the Interior
Department had violated review steps
required by various laws before open—
ing refuges to hunting. The lower
court said the association had no stand-
ing to sue on behalf of its members.

By some vague standard of “ger-
maneness,” recreational interests are
associated with aesthetic interests, the
appeals panel ruled, so the organization
had standing to sue.

“Now the lower court has to go
back through all the laws affecting
refuge management and see if the
administrative rules were followed,”
said James Hanson, general counsel to
the Wildlife Legislative Fund of Ameri-
ca, in Columbus, Ohio. “The ramifica-
tions may mean that every anti-hunt-
ing, animal rights group in the country
could begin filing harassment lawsuits
against federal and state resources
agencies,” leaving the correctness of
management procedure open to court
review.

The WLFA, along with the Interna-
tional Association of Fish & Wildlife
Agencies, intervened in the case.

Karl Hosford, Michigan’s DNR
wildlife chief, said: “The HSUS objec-
tive is stated clearly -— to stop all sport
hunting on refuges. I think that should
be a serious concern of every sports-
man in this state.”

lt’s rumored that the Justice De-
partment may appeal to the US. Su-

preme Court because even the appeals ,

new legal roads.

Michigan is familiar with what
HSUS can do — through its local
affiliate, the Michigan Humane Soci-
ety. A dove season approved by the
state Natural Resources Commission

’two years ago was turned aside in court

when the MHS sued.

Last year, the MHS wrote a game
recodification bill and got Sen. Norman
Shinkle, R-Monroe, to sponsor it.
Imagine that, anti-hunters writing our
hunting laws. What’s more, the state
Senate passed it, albeit with many
modifications — at the behest of James
Karoub, Lansing’s most powerful lob-
byist. The Humane Society had the
bucks for that, too.

Most of the objectionable parts of
the bill have been removed, yet it lies
dormant within Rep. Jerry Bartnik’s
Hunting & Fishing Subcommittee in
the House. Bartnik, a Democrat from
Temperance and a life-long hunter,
wants further changes.

The list of game species over which
the NRC would~ have complete control
specifically ignores creatures like
moose, badgers and doves. It demands
a full legislative process to add any
animals to the list. Sportsmen want all
those species on the list. After all,
sportsmen paid for the now-famous
moose—lifts. We may never have a
huntable population, but let the game
managers make that decision, not the
politicians. Ditto for badgers, who
sometime need controls.

Michigan sportsmen inclined to do-
nate to any humane society ought to
research their affiliations first. If they
support the Michigan Humane Society
or the Humane Society of the United
States, think twice. Many local humane
groups do not have such anti-hunting
affiliations or beliefs. But check before
you write a check.

 




”AGEBA THE DEKALB

NEWS/SUN

3/16/88

F’ython Burial Was‘Most Unusual

 

 

By SHERRY BOREN

When Doyle Shugart was in
high school he began helping out
neighbors who had lost their be-
ioved pets. He would bathe the
animals in alcohol and put them in
containers and bury them. This
was the beginning of what would
turn out to be a career, not only for
himself, but also for his 19 year-
old-son, Kyle Shugart. .

The Shugarts now have one
service located in Chamblee and
one in Gwinnett County. Both are
called Deceased Pet Care.

The business provides pet burial
and crematory services and con-
tainers for the dead animals. A
showroom is ﬁlled with urns, cas-
kets, and vaults designed exclu-
sively for pets.

Doyle Shugart had the service
for 15 years in Duluth prior to the
opening of the DeKalb facility in
September, 1986. He chose Cham-
blee because he considers it a
central location easily accessible
by all metro area residents.

“All types of people use the
service. It’s not necessarily for the
well-to—do. If someone can not af-
ford to spend the money but loved

eKalb Service Helps Pet
Gwners Deal With Death

their pet and wants to provide a
sincere burial — then we’re still
going to work with them. We are
not in this to get rich — it’s all
based on love for animals,” said
Mr. Shugart.

THE BUSINESS, which is
available 24 hours a day, has pro-
vided burial or cremation services
for the owners of many different
types of animals.

The Shugarts deal mostly with
dogs and cats. But, Deceased Pet
Care has also provided services for
other animals, including rabbits,
gerbils, chickens, rosters and
snakes.

“The most unusual burial we
have done was for a sevenfoot long
python on an owner’s private prop-
erty,” he recalled.

As part of each service, the
Shugarts will remove the pet from
the residence or clinic at the
owner’s request. Owners can de-
cide what type of service they want
to have.

If they choose to, they can have
a graveside service for the animal
or have a viewing at their home
where family and friends can pay

their last. respects.

LOVING CARE PET Cemetery,
located in Douglas County, con-
sists of a 40-acre tract of land
where the animals are buried. It is
owned by Elmer and Nola Mau-
terer now, but the Shugarts plan to
purchase the cemetary when Mr.
Mauterer retires.

“Some people choose to have
their pets buried on their own
private land. But the most favored
option for pet owners is cremation
— that way their pet can be with
them always.”

Should the owners decide for a
graveside service, they can write a
summary of the pets’ life, describ-
ing its personality, what the ani—
mal meant to them, and trips/
vacations it made with them.

Future plans for the Deceased
Pet Care facility include a funeral
parlor next door to the showroom
where people will have a place to
go to meditate.

“We are in this business because
we care about animals. To pet
owners -— a lot of pets are members
of the family... it’s like their chil-
dren and we just want to help in
anyway possible.”

NEWSphoto By SHERRY sonar

Dovle Shugart Displays Some Of His Animal Caskets

  
 
   
 
  
  
   




Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, GA 30345

March 18, 1988

khu Edward Montgomery
Chairman

Mellon Bank (East)

P. O. Box 7899
Philadelphia, PA 19101

Dear Mr. Mbntgomery:

Something has just come to my attention which greatly upsets and disturbs me,
and I hope you will take steps to see that the matter is rectified.

For-untold years I have been reading of the dedication of one Dorothy Richards
to our fellow creatures of the woods and forests. I had.admired her for her
fight for the rights of all animals.

I also understand that a wealthy Philadelphian, Florence Erdman (also an ad-
mirer of Dorothy Richards), left over a million dollars in a trust with your
bank, to support sanctuaries where animals could "remain unmolested", and
people could come and learn about wildlife preservation - not hunting and
trapping.

Now I have just read that an avid.hunter and trapper by the name of watkins
was hired to work at the Sanctuary and run it, and that the foreman is also
an avid hunter and trapper. These two fine women must truly be ”rolling”
around in their graves.

Could it be that your bank does not understand the meaning of sanctuary, or
that it does not understand the instructions of Florence Erdman?

To me, this is a gross miscarriage of Florence Erdman's instructions, and
certainly those of Dorothy Richards who fought so hard to protect animals.

I sincerely hope that so well~known a bank a the Mellon in my hometown of
Philadelphia, will take steps immediately to see that both of these mis-
guided individuals are removed from.the Sanctuary without further delay. I
'-am sure there are dozens of people who would be only too happy to see that
the wishes of these two ladies are carried out.

It continues to boggle my mind the meaning hunters and trappers put on the
words ”Refuge" and ”Sanctuary". Of course, it could be lack of education,
but they should certainly be made to understand what these two words mean.
May I hear from you on this matter.

Thank you.

Sincerely,

(Mrs.) Constance F. Yarbrough

 




Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King.Arthur Court N. E.
Atlanta, GA 30345

March 16, 1988

Honorable William V. Roth, Jr.
U. S. Senator from Delaware
Honorable Claudine Schneider
meber of Congress from RI

Dear Senator Roth and Congresswoman Schneider:

Have just had occasion to read your letters in the New York Times
of March 9. Obviously both of you understand what the word "Refuge"
means;

It was my understanding that when Congress created our various Wild—
life Refuges around the country, the idea was that they7wou1dibe3pro-
tected from.any drilling or development of any kind, including hunt-
ing and trapping. At least, the definition given in the dictionary

is that "Refuge" means a place of protection. It is hardly protection
when we think of drilling for anything, or hunting, or trapping.

Surely our wild animals have some rights, and it is the right of those
.fortunate enough to live in a Refuge that they not be trapped or

hunted, or that any part of their area be opened for drilling of
any kind. '

My two Senators and Congressman know very well how I feel about the
prospect of opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling
for oil. I hope they feel as you do. I hope that the entire Senate
and House will support your bill Senator Roth.

we have so polluted our rivers, our lakes and streams, and filled
our air with acid rain I wonder if we will ever again live in a
healthy, pollution-free environment?

Congress has the power to see that our Refuges are indeed protected
against infringement of any kind, and I feel the majority of the
American people want our Refuges protected. I am very hopeful that
a change in presidents will bring about an increased interest in
protecting our Refuges, National Parks, National Forests and wild
areas instead of thinking of ways to develop them.

Again - hanks to both of you for your stand.
Sincerely,

(Nhs.) Constance F. Yarbrough
cc: Honorable Sam Nunn, Honorable wyche Fowler, Honorable Pat Swindall

 




NEW YORK TIMES - March 9, 1988

 

1 letters

 

 

 

 

 

 

. .‘ ‘ q
-I ' \. ~r‘;"\. , ﬂ
‘ m;;_*q’ﬂ‘w~sam.nu .v a .

K‘Shortsighted to Drill for Oil in a Wildlife Refuge

TotheEdltor: ;
As the United States Senate spon-

sor of legislation to declare the

coastal plain of Alaska’s Arctic Nan

. tional Wildlife Refuge a wilderness
[ area, I would like to comment on “Is
This icy Strip Worth 332' Billion?”

(editorial, Feb. 17). ' " :

5-1. The pro-development Interior"be- ' .'

partment report says that there is
only a 19 percent chance of finding
economically recoverable oil, or an 81
percent chance of finding no recover-
able oil in the refuge. If all is found,

the report says, the mean expected .

output is 3.2 billion barrels. . ,
How much oil is that? It would
amount to ”less than 2 percent of
United States oil consumption over
the life of the field. Thus, the center-
piece of the energy policy for a nation
of our stature has a less than one in

five shot at providi g less than 2 per-_
. '* r .; created for their economic value but

cent of our oil. , -

OYou assume that bringing all to
market will cost the oil companies
510 less than the per-barrel price of
on. That is one whale of an assump-
tion. It the Interior Department says
there is a 19 percent chance of finding
a break-even field, the likelihood of
finding afield so large that the per-
unit cost is $10 below the world price
is much less than 19 percent.

0 “Little,” you say, “is risked by

exploratory drilling.” But exploration '_

- stopping short of full—scale devel-
opment — is a serious environmental
threat. The industry says as many as
100 wells would be required. Each

”*increase in the fuel efficiency of our

cars would be greater than the hoped-
for output of the Arctic National Wild-

. life Refuge. Yet many people are pre-

pared to jeopardize this extraordi-
nary international treasure. Future

generations doubtless deserve better

WILLIAM V. Rom JR.
US. Senator from Delaware
Washington, Feb. 19, 1988
Value of Wilderness
To the Editor: ‘
You characterize the decision to
allow drilling for oil in'the Arctic Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge as potentially a
$32 billion saving (relative to the cost
of imported oil) in exchange for
“modest ecological damage to this
small strip of tundra” (editorial, Feb.
1 7). This calculation is misleading.
7, Wilderness preserves were not

than that.

as a Statement about our national
purpose and identity. No doubt, many
of our national parks would produce
billions of dollars if only we accepted
“modest ecological damage.” Indeed,
this reasoning was strongly advo-
cated by former Interior Secretary
James Watt — and rejected by the
American people. Perhaps for this
reason, Interior Secretary Donald
Hodel has focused more on national
security than economic justifications.

Legislative energy and private
capital are limited, and choices are

necessary. Efficiency investments
_. could save more oil and, produce

~ would need 3533,00 jwbic yards of ,.

-:_;gmvek ~15 :mmlon' gallons] voflfieéh "

water, 160 C-130 aircraft loads Of con?
struction materials, and waste pits
and landfills for hundreds of thou-
sands of gallons of toxic ”drill'

muds. Exploration would also require

*1‘.

e? a permanent port facility, airstrips, ' it

roads, pipelines and housing. it is ‘1

shortsighted to pretend that these ac-

tivities would not threaten a fragile .. A

4 and pristine wildlife refuge.

We are buying rain forests to stem 7

i the tide of deforestation, we are
trying to save the game parks of
Kenya, and we now have a chance to
save the only entire Arctic ecosystem
that is left that has not yet been eit-
ploited in one way or another. It is an
Opportunity of a lifetime that we must
not let slip away. ' ‘
Instead of risking this fragile
ecosystem, we must, seek Cleaner and
more promising energy options. The
saving from just a two-mile-a-gallon

s.

 

much greater and more equitably dis-

miss-ted economic benefits. Conser-

vation opportunities, unlike oil re-

sources,'are also .lost with time. We
' \ l _

should pursue these preferred alter-
natives before allowing drilling in
wilderness areas.

The potential economic benefit is
also distorted by your calculation.
Whatever saving might result from

‘ development will be spread over
7, many years and be partly retained by
the oil companies. Assume, conserva-

tively, that consumers receive 75 pen.
cent of the benefits over a 10-year.-
period. Since there are more than 100
million United States households, the
“cost” is $24 a household a year. To‘
the average American family, the
issue is’ therefore more accurately, is
2,000 square miles of wilderness
worth $24?” ALAN S. MILLER
Wilmington, Del., Feb. 23, 1988

A Bad Energy Bu

To the Editor: '

If saving money on needless energy
expenditures is the bottom line of
your Feb. 17 editorial on drilling in
the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, -

_ you draw the wrong conclusion.

Your hypothetical saving is based
on a $10 a barrel saving from Arctic
Refuge oil over the world oil price. '
The Interior Department study on the
refuge gives no evidence of such a
saving. The study indicates a high
probability of not finding the 3.2 bil-
lion barrels.

What the lnterior Department
study did not assess, although re-
quired by law to do so, was cost-effec-
tive alternatives to the Arctic Refuge.

‘ This is a simple act of fiscal responsi-
bility. Why make taxpayers subsidize ‘ '

development of a costly energy op-
tion? If Interior had done such a
least-cost oil analysis, it would have
found an enormous pool of lower cost
energy-efficient investments capable
of saving, by conservative estimate,
more than $150 billion a year.

Recall that conservation invest-
ments made since the 1973 Arab oil
embargo are saving the country $130
billion a year and displacing 14 mil-
lion barrels of oil a day! Recent anal-
yses indicate that three-fourths of all
the oil used in the United States could
be displaced by efficiency invest-
ments costing less then $10 a barrel of
oil saved. In the face of massive Fed-
eral deficits and debt, it is time to quit
subsidizing bad energy buys and to
begin pursuing least-cost energy '
planning. CLAUDINE SCHNEIDER .

Member of Congress, 2d Dist, RI. 7
Washington, Feb. 18, 1988

 




 

2-year-old mauled by bear in fair condition after

the 7-year-old female Himalayan ‘*

Bystander

in.

to rescue
:credited

s MANSFIELD, Ohio (UPI) —— A
2-year-old boy was in fair condi-
-->tion at a hospital Sunday after be-
ing mauled by one of four dancing
bears performing tricks and a Go]-
dilocks and the Three Bears rou-
tine at a shopping mall, police
said.

Kevin Kuhn suffered cuts on his
face and head and lost part of his
scalp Saturday afternoon when he
was mauled while posing with a
BSD—pound bear after the owner,
Walter Naghtin Sr., 54, of North—
brook, “1., turned away from the
animal, Mansfield police dispatch-
er Betty Hart said.

The boy, from nearby Galion,
was taken to Mansfield General
Hospital and later flown to Chil—
dren’s Hospital in Columbus, 45
miles south of Mansfield.

Anne Munk, nursing supervisor
at Childrens, said the boy was
showing improvement Sunday af-
ter reconstruction surgery was
performed on his face.

A bystander, Allen Grose, 47, of
Mansfield, was credited with sav-
ing the boy’s life when he jumped
over a fence, grabbed a stool and
began beating the back of the bear
to divert the animal’s attention,
Hart said.

“I heard some commotion, peo—
ple screaming and the trainers
calling the bear’s name off, telling
her, ‘No, don’t, don’t,’ ” Grose
said Sunday.

Grose said he moved closer to
see what was going on and didn’t

- notice the youngster between the
bear’s paws until the animal
moved its head.

“I jumped the fence, went in
and grabbed one of the training
stools. Then I started hitting the
bear,” Grose said.

. ;After the incident, Grose said,
‘frl thought about the baby, that

I

T ' ' . .

basi: “ta?” 2598'; that. Injured a 2-year-old This photo was taken Wednesday during

trainer Waist; ‘eN' Ohfo' on Saturday, The the first performance at the mail. The boy:
' er aghtm Jr.. also was hurt. Kevin Kuhn, was in fair condition Sunday.

liUUS‘I‘ON POST - March 6, 1988

who came .

       
 

was all i thought about.”

Walter Naghtin Jr., 20, the son
of the owner, wrestled the bear off
the child and suffered a minor cut
to his left hand, officials said.

The bear, named “Fluffy” and
one of four performing bears
called the Goldilocks Dancing
Bear Troupe, was taken to an un-
named site in Richland County
where it was placed under quaran-
tine.

Police, who were notified of the
mauling at 2:36 pm, said they
were unable to determine what
caused the attack, which occurred
after the elder Naghtin gave the
bear a treat, then turned and
walked a short distance away.

The four bears performed tricks
such as riding a bike while Walter

Naghtin Sr. held a leash.

Kevin and four other children
were posing for a photo with one
of the bears when the boy was
attacked. .

Hart said she was uncertain
how long the bear will remain un-

der quarantine, ordered by the F
health department to determine if 3

24.2?"

$43

black bear has any diseases.

Munk said the boy’s parents
and grandmother have been at
Kevin’s bedside most of the day
and night. The child was con—
scious and restless. she said.

“The feeling is more surgery
will be required." said Munk. add—
ing that the outlook appears good
for the child.

William King. the Richland.

County game protector, said the
Naghtins had the proper permits
for the bears.

Susan Gentille, a spokeswoman
for Skilken Properties, which
owns the mall, said the act re—
ceived a four-star rating in an in-
dustry publication. She said the
mall checked the owner’s creden—

: tials before booking the. ShOw.

The Mansfield Journal rermried
the bears’ trainer was fined $51,600
in Jacksonville, Fla, in Februarv
after the elder Naghtin failed i6
obtain a permit.

The newspaper said Fluffy at—
tacked a youth in Jacksonville last
month. The victim required six
stitches, and the bear was quaran-

. . tined for five days before being ‘~
" released.

"rm : "

surgery

 

 
 

 

 

 

APph

 

 
   

..;

OiC‘i

 

 

    

 
  

I




BOSTON GLOBE - March 9, 1988

Project shows elderly responsible for pets

As the ombudsman for a {co-
operative effort to evaluate the
feasibility of allowing pets in
our state's subsidized housing
for the elderly. I applaud your
Feb. 27 editorial “A peevisli pet
policy."

Recognizing the unsympa-
thetic nature of the blanket no-
pets rule in Massachusetts. the
state Legislature two years ago
commissioned a study :25, probe
the merits of allowing s " :iors in
public housing to kw; pets.

Under the “Pet Pilot Pro-
ject," conducted jointly by the
Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals and the Executive Office of
Communities and Development,
several housing facilities across
the state lifted the ban on pets
and allowed elderly tenants to
keep pets for one year under
certain conditions.

Pet committees — made up of
pet owners, housing managers
and residents without pets —
were established at each facility
to oversee the project and en—
sure that the guidelines set
forth were followed.

The project unveiled several
misconceptions — even fears ——
that originally formed the basis
of the no-pets law. Those who

backed the law banning pets
wrongly assumed that: 1) pub-
lie—housing facilities would be
bombarded with animals if per-
mission to own them were
granted; 2) pets would be an en-
croachment on non-pet—owners’
lives: 3) lifting the ban on pets
would place burdensome time
demands on housing managers.

Contrary to these fears, the
elderly proved to be fully cogni-
zant of their physical and fi—
nancial limitations, and only a
few took advantage of the tem—
porary rule. Recognizing their
neighborly responsibilities, pet—
owning tenants were eager to
abide by the strict guidelines set
forth. Tenants without pets of-
ten reported how much they en-
joyed being around the pets.

Massachusetts lawmakers
have the opportunity to change
this no—pets law through a bill
before the House. which would
allow residents in state-subsi-
dized housing for the elderly to

own pets under carefully con- .

structed guidelines. Passage of
this bill would be a break-
through for our elderly citizens,

whose only companion in life is :

often their pet.

JUDY FINERTY .-

MSPCA
Boston

THE DAILY TELEGRAPH, TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 1988 5

 

 

 

 

Pedigree dogs are
among 1,000 a day ﬁled down for

being destroyed

By Robert Bedlow

EXPENSIVE PEDIGREE dogs are being killed daily
by vets and animal welfare agencies, says the
RSPCA. English Sheepdogs, Afghan hounds, Great
Danes and golden retrievers are among the popular
breeds humanely destroyed every hour.

It is estimated that 1,000
dogs a day die throughout
the country.

They are among the increas-
ing number of petsabandoned
by owners who no longer want

‘ them.

An RSPCA spokesman said:
“Value and breeding are no
safeguards to save a dog, if an
owner decides he no longer
wants it.

“Neither is age. One aban-
doned nine-year-old golden
retriever we know had been
with its owner since a puppy,
but was thrown out once
another puppy arrived."

People were buying dogs on
impulse without realising the
commitment needed, and the
demands made by the animals,
and “simply dumping them”
when they became a burden.

The British attitude towards
dogs will be attacked next
month and its image as a “dog-
loving nation” further tarnished
when the RSPCA annual report
is expected to show a record
number of dogs abandoned and
put down last year.

“Dogs are just taken for

Lgiranted and people regard them

as a consumer product,” said
the RSPCA. “Can you imagine
the outcry if 1,000 horses a day
were destroyed?”

It is anticipated that Mr
Andrew Richmond, executive
director, will give RSPCA sta-
tistics that show nearly 300,000,
dogs were abandoned last year,
an increase of nearly 10 per
cent.

Figures for the number of
dogs destroyed are also
expected to indicate, it is
believed, a four per cent
increase over the previous
year’s ﬁgure of 137,394.

The RSPCA is anxious to see
breeding controlled.

It also wants the introduction
of dog registration and the esta-
bishment of a nation-wide net-
work of dog wardens.

RSPCA resignations

0 Last week Mr Victor McMil-
Ien, an RSPCA shelter manager
at Radcliffe-on-Trent, Notts,
resigned because he could no
longer take the pressure of
“executing dogs”. The society
said one in every six of its staff
who resigns each year does so
for the same reason.

Bull terrier’s
teeth ‘were

training ﬁght’

By Michael Fleet
'Welsh Correspondent

TRAINERS in the illegal
sport of dog-ﬁghting are ﬁl-
ing down the teeth of spar-
ring dogs to give champion
fighters practice without
injury, the RSPCA has
discovered.

The barbaric procedure came
to light after an Engish bull ter-
rier, about eight years old, was
found tied to a gate at Ardleen,
near Welshpool, Powys.

“The dog had clearly been in
ﬁghts,” said RSPCA Chief Insp
Trevor Caldwell. “It was bleed-
ing badly around the muzzle
and chunks of ﬂesh had been
bitten out of it.”

Its teeth had been ﬁled to ﬂat
stumps, similar to a human’s,
so it could not hurt other dogs
during training bouts, he said.
It had to be put down.

“The dog had probably not
been up to standard for ﬁghting,
but was good enough to toughen
up younger dogs,” he said.
“They could attack it, without
being hurt themselves.”

Powys is not known as a dog-
ﬁghting area and Mr Caldwell
thought it might have been
dumped in transit from South
Wales to the North.

Filing of teeth was not some-
thing he had come across
before. “It is particularly cruel,
even for these people,” he
said.A report has gone to the
RSPCA’s Special Investigations
Unit.

 

 

L______————__.—_______—_—___—__j




Tuesday, March 8, 1988 - ﬁaniﬁumisco thnidc

 

B Y BRANT WA RD/THE CHRONICLE

Rocky , cspccf at the arket

Producers rais '3 ‘the range chicken’ just as Grandma did

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

gig/M 5/65 WEI?
CHRONICLE NORTH BA Y BUREA U

 

tie, fter long years of exile at the bot-

" tom of restaurant menus and the

cheap end of supermarket meat

. ‘ displays, the lowly chicken is mak-
ing a comeback.

A new Petaluma-raised champion is get-
ting the respect he enjoyed in the days when
Grandma’s farm was really in the country,
when a barn was made out of genuine red-
wood and when a chicken, by George, was a
chicken -— not some spongy wimp from the
cramped quarters of a high-tech “growth envi-
ronment."

“We raise ’em the same way Grandma
raised them 40 years ago,” said Bart Ehman,
who along with his wife, Patricia, has turned a
tiny share of the national poultry market into
a giant marketing coup.

Three years after they turned to designer
labeling, their cowboysbooted, gunototin
“Rocky the Range Chicken” trademark is put-
ting the Petaluma chicken back on the map.

The Ehmans’ Rocky, raised on a fog-
shrouded ranch a few miles west of town, gets
an all-vegetable diet that contains no growth
enhancers or antibiotics. lie spends his 10 to 1
weeks ' life in a h I W '
chic 'en 3 ..u ros and he. is ree ra 3h.
outSi eand scratc n we . . 'e ives three
wee longer t an your Mac mechanized
chicken, and winds up at the market still sport-

 

ing his head and feet and looking a bit yel-l

lowed by his “stress-free” lifestyle.

His looks don’t displease the shoppers who
line up to pay as much as $2 a pound for a
Sunday dinner that usually sells for less than
half as much. The Ehmans are moving more
than 8,500 five-pound Rockys a week and hope
to double that number with a new product
they have just introduced.

A

 

“When the Rocky first started to sell. I
thought it was just a fad,” said Ed Deatherage,
who heads the meat department at Carl’s Mar-
ket, a Petaluma mainstay that predates the
march of chain supers to Sonoma County. “But
it’s strange how customers can really tell the
difference. They even come in here asking for
‘that natural chicken,’ but they know what
they wants”

Deatherage, who had Rocky on display\

last week for a mere $1.69 a pound (Foster
Farms went for 80 cents), estimates that 40
percent of the chicken he sells these days is
Ehmans’ brand. Most of the buyers are youn-
ger, but some have been around since the days
when Petaluma was known as a chicken capi-
tal. -

“Almost all our older customers have rais-
ed their own chickens,” he said. “That’s why
they like the looks of Rocky.”

Rocky already is served in some of the
finest restaurants: San Francisco’s Prego, Los
Angeles’ Spago and L’Orangerie, and Berke-
ley’s Chez Panisse. He even was served twice to
the pope during his visit to California last
summer.

An Idea ls Hatched

The 47-year-old Ehman was a struggling
Sonoma County sheep rancher a few years ago
when a restaurant owner asked him to sell
some undersized lambs that were commercial-
ly unavailable. That led to the creation of a
restaurant-aimed marketing venture called
“Sonoma Baby Lamb,” and it worked so well
that Ehman figured it might work with chick-
en, too.

“The door was already open so we just
started experimenting until we found some-
thing that tasted good,” said Patricia Ehman, a
gourmet cook who has come up with a few
recipes as part of the marketing package.
“Chicken tastes like what it eats. If you feed it

 

fish meal and animal fat, it’ll end up tasting
that way —— like fat fish.”

The Ehmans leave the actual raising and
processing of the birds to Allen Shainsky of
Petaluma Poultry Processors. They handle the
accounts and make sure each chicken arrives
at its destination with a trademark Rocky
badge clipped to its wing. The restaurant trade
is no longer their prime market; the birds now
are sold in 120 supermarkets, primarily in the
Bay Area and Los Angeles.

Spinal! Product

Already a multimillion-dollar operation,
Rocky the Range Chicken is shooting for a
much wider audience with the introduction
last month of “Rocky Junior,” a smaller ver-

 

sion of the same product that sells for about ‘

$1.30 a pound. Rocky Juniors are fed the same
diet, but they go to market earlier.

Marketing gimmicks aside, the new chick-
en arrives at the supermarket with its head
and feet removed and can be sealed inside a
plastic bag like its inexpensive competitors.
That opens up markets in stores that don’t
have their own meat cutters on hand.

The Ehmans’ weekly sale of 8,500 chickens
is still a small part of Sonoma County’s poultry
industry, which markets more than 250,000
birds each week. Even at that, Petaluma and
the rest of the county —— once the nation’s
prime poultry source -- now lags far behind
the handful of mass producers who process a
staggering 95 million chickens every seven
days in the United States.

“He’s a real bright spot for the poultry
industry in Sonoma County,” said Deputy
County Agricultural Commissioner John Wes
toby, referring to Ehman, not Rocky. “The
industry has had a tough time because of all
the urbanization going on. But he's found a
niche to be successful.”

 




ATLANTA JOURNAL — March 15, 1988

tel“: Keasiier

Ever wonder why your cat won’t do any tricks?

MIAMI —— Cats have the strongest union in
the world. When you actually think about cats,
you realize the total power of collective bargain-
ing —— or. actually, collective non-bargaining.

Cats will never do anything you tell them to
do. Consequently, cats are never expected to do
anything. This is undoubtedly the most intelli-
gent thing any animal, particularly any domesti-
cated animal. has ever done.

Cats have all the advantages — more, actual-
ly —- of any other animal species which humans
think they own. But cats never have to do any-
thing to earn it.

Contrast the lordly position of cats with the
lowly and rather clown-like groveling position of
dogs. Almost all dogs, at some time or other, are
set upon by humans forcing them to do some-
thing idiotic like sitting up.

“Sit up!” the human will command the pooch
over and over. “Sit up! I know you can do it. Now
sit up!”

Eventually, the pup will think, sheesh, maybe
I better humor this jerk, or no telling what will
happen to me. The dog will cave in. And he will
sit up. Still another loser, condemned to having
to situp for company and shake hands, or maybe
to bring in the paper, or fetch slippers, or roll
over, or play dead, or whatever the human can
force him to do.

Dogs got off to the wrong start, obviously.

“Hey,” ancient dogs said to one another
when they first discovered humans. “I know.
Let’s get domesticated. We can go inside the
caves with those people, if we act right, and lay
in front of the fire, and get free food and mam-
moth bones.”

“Great idea!” the other dogs said, and they

crept into caves, wagging their tails, crawling
pitifully along on the floor and being cute.

“Ugh! Doggie!” said the cavemen. “Sittum up
or I eat you.”

Sure, boss, anything you say, thought the
dogs. And they were doomed forever.

But not cats. Nobody ever tries to make. a ‘cat.
sit up. Or at least nobody this side of a basket-
weaving ward. A cat is not going to do anything
he doesn’t want to do.

This is the first thing a mommy cat teaches
her kittens.

“Clarence, Arthur, Sue Ellen, pay attention
to me now,” the mommy cat says to her kitens.
“You too, Frank. Listen closely. Never do any-
thing a human tells you to. Never come when
you are called, never do tricks, never do any-
thing. All of catdom depends on you. If you ever
do anything a human says, the Big Boogie Cat
will get you!”

This is drummed into kittens’ heads over and
over. It is called cat religion. No cat ever violates
it. They are taught that if they don’t act like cats,
they will be treated like dogs. This is why dogs
hate cats.

“Look at that little creep!” a dog says when
he sees a cat. “He gets away with murder! Never
has to do anything. I’ll fix his wagon, grrr.”

The dog takes off after the cat, who casually
climbs something and idly shoots the dog an ob-
scene paw gesture. And calls the dog a spineless
lackey. Which he is. No wonder dogs hate cats.
The truth hurts.

Many experiments have been conducted to
try to make a cat sit up. All methods, including
hypnosis, food deprivation, pleading, and prom-
ises of fat Hollywood contracts, were tried. All
failed. There are no scab cats.

It. has been proven that cats are the most
stubborn form of animal life, except, of course,
for Irish wives. But there is logic in their obsti-
nate behavior. It is their creed. And it works.

How marvelously efficient is the cat code!
We have all seen lion tamers at the circus. They
pop their whips and huge lions and tigers jump
around on chairs, rollover, do chorus line num—
bers -—- anything the trainer wants.

But have you ever seen a cat tamer act?

No. And you never will.

It is not that cats can’t do tricks. Of course
they can. And better than dogs. They just won’t.

There are stories of horrible revenge by cats.
Edgar Allen Poe had a cat —— Edgar Allen Cat.
The poet got mad at the cat one day and, in a fit
of artisitic temperament, threw his goose quill at
it, spearing is superficially, but painfully, in the
fundament.

Poe apologized immediately. But, cats do not
accept apologies. Cats get even. Edgar Allen Cat
started doing tricks —- sitting up, shaking hands,
doing the side~straddle hop, bringing in Poe’s re-
jection slips from the mailbox and even dashing
off an occasional limerick.'Poe rushed around
telling his friends that his cat did wonderful
tricks!

But the cat would not do the tricks when any—
body other than Poe was around. This, of course,
drove Edgar Allen Poe up the wall eventually,
and is said to be the reason he drank so much.

When we think of sticking together, we
should think of the cat.

It has the secret of happiness. It does pre-
cisely what it darn well pleases. Humans could
take a page from the Great Cat Book. Although I
don’t know why. It’s too late for us.»-(c.1986.)

 




Many fearful

owners give

up pit bulls

Latest fatal attack spurs
precautionary measure

By Maria Odum
Staﬂ Writer

Owners of pit bull terriers have
been turning their dogs over to ani-
mal control offices in record num-
bers because they fear them, au-
thorities say.

Following the fatal mauling of a
2-year-old DeKalb County boy by pit
bulls last Friday, ﬁve of the dogs
were brought in Monday to the De—
Kalb Cbunty Animal Control Shel-
ter, said Sgt. H.L. Pearson, assistant
commander of the DeKalb County
Animal Control Unit. The dogs had
not bitten anyone, he said, but the
owners feared they might.

“They didn’t want to take the
chance of something happening to
them that happened to someone
else,” said Pearson.

Some owners of pit bulls have
called the animal control unit ask-
ing them to pick up their dogs.

“An owner will call and say my
pit bull snapped or snarled at me
and I’m scared,” said Pearson.

The price of a fatal attack can
be high. Currie Hobbs of Stone
Mountain, the owner of the pit bull
terrier that mauled 2-year-old Chett
Hyder last Friday, faces 38 counts
of violating DeKalb County’s animal
control ordinance, police said. The
charges of violating the ordinance
on dangerous animals, responsible
ownership, keeping dogs on a re-
straint, registration, tags and kennel
licensing carry fines of up to
_$19,000.

Monday, nine calls came in to
DeKalb Animal Control from people
reporting pit bulls in their neigh-
borhood, Pearson said. Often, ani-
mal control ofﬁcers ﬁnd that the
dogs reported are not pit bulls but
other breeds, he added.

Bill Garrett, executive director
of the Atlanta Humane Society,
said, “Some pit bulls are brought to
us because the owners are now
fearful of liabilities. We will take
the animal. but not with the under-
standing that they’ll be automatical-
ly put to sleep.”

 

Garrett estimates that about a
dozen dogs have been brought in by

owners during the past year, includ—
ing pit bulls, Doberman pinschers

and rottweilers.

. Atlanta Humane Society work-
~ ers test the dogs for age, health and
temperament to decide whether 5
they will be put up for adoption or . ,
, destroyed. .. ,.

Robert Fisher, director of Ful-
ton County’s Animal Control Unit,
said about a dozen or more dogs
have been brought in by owners

who were afraid of them. However, ’

he said that while pit bulls get most
of the attention, they are not the
dogs that most often attack people.
Shirley Jenkins, statistician for
the animal control unit, said the the
dog bites reported in Fulton County

in 1987 included 193 by mixed-
bTCEd dogs; 86 by. GermanfShep— '

herds; 55 by chows; 26 by pit bulis;
and 25 by, Doberman pinschers.
DeKalb County statistics for the
ﬁrst six months of 1987 listed pit:
bulls as twelfth on the list of dogs
that had bitten people. Garrett said
the attacks of pit bulls seem to have
more serious results than those of
other dogs. '
Only pit. bulls have been in-
volved in fatal attacks in DeKalb.
Pearson said. Besides the attack on
Hyder, 4-year-old Billy Gordon Jr.,
was killed by a pit bull in 1986. The
owner of that dog, Hayward Turnip-
seed, was convicted of manslaugh-

. ter and sentenced to ﬁve years in

prison and ﬁve years’ probation —-

~ the first conviction of its kind in the

state.

“Who’s weaker than the very
young and the very old? That seems
to be the reason the attacks end up
so severe. If the attack had been on
a 200-pound man, he may have only
been injured. But when the attack
was on a 2-year-old boy, it was
deadly,” said Garrett.

The child’s body was found in
one of the dog runs behind Hobbs'
house. where nine pit bull terriers

were kept. All were chained at the
f time of the attack.

Nc fatal attacks by dogs were

reported in Fulton County.

.. ‘ _

ATLANTA JOURNAL - March 16, 1988

Evans renews

call for ban
on pit bulls

DeKalb Bureau

For the thirdtime in two years,
DeKalb County Commissioner John
Evans is calling for a countywide
ban on pit bull terriers followmg
the fatal mauling of a boy last week.

The DeKalb commission is sched-

uled to vote on Evans’ proposal at
its regular board meeting next
week.

Chatt Hyder, 2, was mauled to
death by a pit bull terrier last Fria
day, after he apparently wandered
into a dog run in the back yard of a
house at 1379 South Indian Creek
Drive. The owner of the dog was
charged with violating county ani-
mal ordinances, and the boy’s moth-
er was charged with reckiess
conduct.

“I just don’t want to have that A
blood on my hands,” Evans said at‘- '
ter a commission work session
Tuesday. . ‘
5 Evans proposed a countywrdc '
ban on pit bulls in 1986 shortly after
a 4-year~old boy was killed by three
of the dogs, but the measure never
reached a commission vote. Evans
again proposed the ban last year af-
ter an elderly DeKalb woman was
seriously injured by a pit bull. That
proposal was defeated 5-2.

 

 




-Wild horses
can't keep

them away
Public able to adopt

beasts this weekend
By William Pack

 

OF THE HOUSTON POST

Dreamers and drovers moseyed around
the dusty stables at the Houston Farm and
Ranch Club Friday, eyeing a passle of wild
horses and burros that the federal govern-
ment will put up for adoption this week-
end.

“lt’s just a dream of mine, something I
would want to do,” said Jocelyn McCon-
nell when asked if she was really consid-
ering a purchase of one of the 70 wild
horses and two burros that will be offered
to the public by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.

_ Nathan Skallman, a spokesman for the
bureau, said he has heard a variety of
[natives for purchasing the wild animals
that have been taken off public lands in 10
Western states to help thin out the herds
and to protect them from unscrupulous
“j,"mustangers.”

The horses will be put up for adoption
for a $125 fee, provided a potential owner
has a 20-by-20 foot corral with six—foot
high fences made of sturdy material, a
shelter to keep the animal out of the heat,
enough hay and water to feed it and a
four-horse, covered trailer to haul it away.

The four—horse trailer is needed be-
cause the mustangs have been known to
damage anything smaller when they are
penned up in close quarters for the first
time, Skallman said.

“They shouldn’t expect to take these
horses and they’ll be instantly gentle,”
said Skallman. The horses, separated in
groups by sex, grazed slowly around the
pens and appeared to be calmer than
might be expected of wild animals, but

HOUSTON POST - March 12, 1988

 

 

 

Post photo by Manuel Chavez

Jade Tumlinson, of Porter. feeds one of the horses up for adoption at the Houston Farm and Ranch Club.

Skallman said that was mainly because
they were still with the herd.

“I’ve seen some try to go through the
roof when we put them in the trailers,”
Skallman said.

Jesse James Janak of Stafford said,
however, the horses can be made gentle
in about two weeks with the proper atten-
tion and training. He should know. He has
purchased two of the horses himself and
has trained six. wild horses for other peo-
ple.

“They’re not as fiery and jumpy as
some of those quarter—horses,” said
Janak. “They’re not a bucking type of
horse.”

“You have to know how to love an
animal that’s been wild,” said Janak’s

wife, Louise. “You can’t mistreat them.
You just got to give them a good home.”

Michelle Helm of Houston said she has
doubts about how gentle the horses would
be but recognized, after being around
horses all her life, that each had its own
temperament.

“You can’t expect much from horses
that have been out in the wild. They need
a lot of work,” said Helm.

She said horse prices currently are in a
depressed state but the fee asked for the
wild horses was “real cheap,” especially
since they have already received medical
attention. Some have even been halter
broken, Skallman said.

The burros can be adopted for $75
apiece but fewer of them are available

because those herds are closer to accept—
able levels and because they have proved
to be popular purchases, officials said.

About 70,000 wild horses and burros
have been adopted since the bureau initi-
ated the program in' 1973 but the task if
far from complete, said Jim Wade, coordi-
nator of the adoption program in the area.
Last year, the bureau counted 52,000
horses and burros in the wild. The goal is
to thin the herds by about half, officials
said.

A drawing to determine the order of
selection will begin at 9 am. today at the
club, which is about two miles north of
Interstate 10 off Highway 6. Animals can
be adopted until the evening hours today
and from 8 am. until 3 pm. Sunday.

 




 

HOUSTON POST - March 12, 1988

Drug dog takes lumps

in court demonstration
Handler defends canine after miscues

By Janet Elliott
OF THE HOUSTON POST

 

Tarzan has gone to extreme
lengths to sniff out hidden drugs,
but became sidetracked by the
scent of another canine during a
courtroom test of his prowess Fri-
day.

Attorneys gathered in state Dis-
trict Judge Woody Densen’s court
to watch the unusual demonstra-
tion dissolved in laughter when
Tarzan, a 3-year-old Belgian Mali-
nois, tore into a green suitcase that
contained a dog blanket.

Tarzan also “alerted” on a bag

belonging to a court reporter but

bypassed a satchel that contained
a cocaine grinder and scale.
“Tarzan failed his screen test,”
one lawyer quipped as a television
station filmed the episode.
Tarzan’s handler, Houston po-
lice officer Doyle Green, sniffed at
the derisive attorneys and blamed
Tarzan’s confusion on pressure
and a “contaminated courtroom.”
Green said Tarzan has discov-
ered $14 million worth of illegal
drugs at Hobby Airport over the
past 10 months. He said the dog
has been 95 percent accurate.
Green and Tarzan were called

into court by Terry Collins, the at—8

. torney for a 23-year-old Houston
woman accused of possessing two
grams of cocaine.

Tarzan had identified the co-
caine grinder in one of Kimberly
Morgan’s bags as she was passing
through Hobby Airport Jan. '27.
Prosecutor Chris Flood said police
stopped Morgan and found the co—
caine when they searched her
purse.

Collins was attempting to show
Densen that Tarzan is unreliable
and that officers had no probable
cause to stop Morgan.

Collins placed seven suitcases in
the courtroom, and Green brought
in Tarzan. The dog sniffed at the
satchel containing the cocaine
grinder four times but bypassed it
for the court reporter’s bag and the
green suitcase. Tarzan ripped a
large tear in the leather suitcase.

The suitcase was empty except
for a few pieces of grass — the
lawn kind. A strong smell came

8 from the bag, and Collins ex-
- plained that he had put a dog’s

blanket in the suitcase overnight.

At one point, Tarzan tried to get
out of the courtroom. Green specu—
lated that his dog wanted to get
into the courtroom next door,
where state District Judge Ted Poe
had 1,888 pounds of marijuana as
evidence in a drug trial.

Green said the smell of cocaine
on the grinder probably has subsid-
ed during the two months the small
instrument has been in the police
property room. He explained the
dog’s interest in the court report-
er’s equipment as having to do
with drug evidence the reporter
previously has handled.

Tarzan lives to sniff out dope.
Green said, and was named be-
cause of the heroics he has demon-

strated. Green said Tarzan can rip a

hole in hard Samsonite brand lug
gage and once hung onto a 7—inch
high ceiling vent where some ille~
gal drugs were hidden.

 

 

 

 

,. _,,. _. _._‘... mw....~.—-o..-—u

 

 

 

Post photo by Janet Etiiott

Officer Doyle Green downplays Tarzari's court breakdown,
saying the dog is 95 percent accurate in Its pursuit of drugs.

 




 

 

DALLAS TIMES HERALD

Oregon replaces
Texas native elk

v

W1th close cousins

By Jeff Collins
.. OF THE TIMES HERALD STAFF

r..

J
.1'

5;, DAVIS MOUNTAINS — Nearly 100 elk from

rtheast Oregon have bounded from steel—sided,

cattle cars into West Texas’ wide- -open spaces in the
past two weeks, taking up residence where a related
breed roamed a century ago.

 

Mountain elk, a cousin to
an extinct species native
to Texas, were released
Wednesday, . trotting
proudly into the.Wylie
Mountains a few miles
southeast of Van Horn.
Forty-eight others
sprinted into the upper
canyons on the north
face of the Davis Moun-
tains seven days before.
Just 48 hours before
their release, both groups
feasted on hay in the
snowbound timber of Or-
egon’s- Blue Mountains,

 

Park service
releases
100 elk

" from Oregon dant and could become a

nuisance to farmers.

, 1 Now, in an experiment
Dallas Times Herald sponsored by the Texas

Parks and Wildlife Department, they must learn to

survive amid the Chaparral of the Trans-Pecos. The

transfer is the most ambitious yet in the western

part of the state and, if successful, be a boon to

$r§§§d a delight to naturalists.
were bringing a species back that once occurred
.zfraaturally) in the state,” said Charlie Winkler, direc~

 

.,~:.
mamwn i ~
J i .

l

Fifty-one of the Rocky.

where elk are overabun--

March 4, 1988

 

Rancher Leonard Lethco, with camera, and George Urquhart watch as the elk are released r

tor of the state’s big-game program. “It’s just anoth- .
er wildlife resource. People can see them, they can‘,

hunt them and they can photograph them.”

A small crowd of ranchers and rangers gathered

just after dawn on the north face of the Davis
Mountains to, watch the ﬁrst herd, shorn of their
antlers to prevent injury during the 36-hour drive to
Texas, tumble and leap from the trailers, then gal-

 

 

Joe Patronlte/Dallas Ylmes Herald

‘ “£145".

4f}

1

lop up the slopes into three separate canyoi‘isl
Within minutes, the shaggy c1 eatures were clim
bing the cactus— studded hills a mile awa3%.;" ﬁr}? , 52;.“ ;_
“It was a fantastic release,” said Todd (Bellamy
wildlife technician with the Oregon Fish andW1d—
life Department, which is trading the elk for 300
wild turkeys from the Panhandle.

Please see ELK, A-lo

 

 




 

 

,

  
   

   

- r Joe Patronite/Dallas Times Herald
Students listen to a radio receiver tuned to electronic collars

 

 

From A-l

 

“I was really impressed with
the way they came off that
truck,” Callaway said. “After 48
hours, I was surprised. I expected
broken legs. . . . I think they’ll do
super (in Texas).”

In the second releaée, one elk
died en route to Texas, but. the
remaining 51 animals “came trot-
ting out of the truck, trotting
proud like they do,” said Mike
Kemp, of Oregon’s Fish and
Wildlife Department. . ,

Elk have been stocked private-
ly in Texas since the late 19203,
but this program is the ﬁrst by
state government and just the
ﬁfth in the western part of the

.state, where virtually all the

state’s free-ranging elk live.
Herds live in the Guadalupe,
Glass and Eagle mountains.
Authorities don’t know why a
previous effort failed in the Davis
Mountains, 100 miles southwest
of Odessa. Nine animals released

in the early 1930s had disap- .

peared 10 years later, according
to a state study. Ofﬁcials are opti-
mistic the new herds can thrive
in the mountain ranges, where
peaks top 4,000 feet, and water
and grass are plentiful. ’

Elk once roamed naturally
throughout portions of Texas, but
the breed native to the state,
Merriam elk, died out by the
turn of the century, Winkler said.
The reason is uncertain, although.
hunters and diseases introduced

 

worn by nine elk cows released in the Davis Mountains.

 

 

by cattle are suspected.

 

Except for a slight difference
in their skulls, the Rocky Moun—
tain elk are almost identical to
Merriam elk.

“It’s a very subtle difference,”
Winkler said. “You can’t tell by
looking at them on the hoof.”

Male elk can grow to be 6 feet
long and weigh as much as 700
pounds, although the average
weight is 500. pounds. The ani-
mals communicate with a pierc-
ing whistle. When they sense
danger they bark like dogs, but
louder. Males make bugling nois-
es in the mating season. All have
a distinctive white patch on their
rumps.

A 1984 survey showed there
are about 1,600 elk elsewhere in
Texas, all but 15 of them living
in captivity or conﬁned by fences
to privately owned pastures.

Oregon, on the other hand, has
.1,600 of the animals at its Elk

Horn preserve alone -—- about 200'

more than allowed. The state be-
gan offering the animals to other
states last year, with the ﬁrst
shipment going to Alaska.

Unless controlled, the elk raid
haystacks and grain ﬁelds. They
aren’t expected to be a threat to
agriculture in Texas because Jd
is plentiful enough for elk and
cattle, state game ofﬁcials say.

After the elk were trapped in
Oregon, game officials tested
them for disease. Radio collars
were attached to nine cows to
help researchers track their
movements. .

“Their habitat is dwindling fast
(in Oregon),” said Oregon biolo-
gist Jerry Grover. “Down here (in
Texas), there’s lots of wide—open.
spaces.”




’ ﬁght-n

- - The Tampa Tribune-Times —3-J\\
DENVER» POST —- February 13 1988 ‘ ’ ‘ ’ ‘ " '
‘ ‘ 9 ’ M} Elf/f

By The Associated Press ‘

CHEYENNE, Wyo. —- Mother
Nature will take care of Yellow
stone National Park‘s elk herd,
which is at a 50-year population
high, says Sen. Malcolm Wallop.

“What’s happened is, you‘ve had
a couple of very mild winters and
falls in a row and elk simply have
not been leaving the park,” the
Wyoming Republican said this
week “lla'rd weather will start
tl em haclt out. and hunting pres-
sure will ease. that circumstance."

A recent count by federal and
state agencies showed that the
herd in the northern portion of the
park had swelled to more than
19,000 animals. Mild winters that
allowed the ell; to remain inside
the park also resulted in a lack of
hunter success in hunting areas ad-
jacent to the park. .

The count was made by officials
from Yellowstrme, the US. Forest
Service, and the Montana Depart—
ment of Fish, Wildlife and Parks.

For the past. several years, the
nortluirn Yellowstone ell; herd had
been counted at between 15,00ti and
16,000 animals, up sharply from
1968 when the herd dropped to 3,172
animals at a time when the Park
Service was actively culling the
herd.

Snow depths in Yellowstone’s
northern range this winter have
been far below normal. Whereas
some 5,000 elk normally move to

lower elevations outside the park-

during the winter, the recent. sur-
rey detected Just 48? outside Yel-
lowst one.

lligh numbers of ellt, mule deer,
bison and pronghorn antelope have
prompted some criticisms that the
park’s northern range is over-
grazed. ,,

"Some environmentalists and
conservationists Say the lack of a
predator in Yellowstone has al-
lowed the ell; population to balloon.
They say a proposed wolf reintrod-
uction plan, if implemented, would
reduce the elk herd .

Wallop. who recently visited Yet
lowstone to review the l'!3il-=‘"‘-Tliii
park's winter (iiperations, optitises
the Willi l‘cll'lli'titittt'llol; t'liali.

 

 

50 buffalo

‘ must be shot,

O O ‘
officials say
By The Assomate-d Press

.lACKSt'lN HOLE, Wyo. -
Wildlife officials want to cut
in half the bison herd on the
National Elk Refuge by kill-
ing 50 buffalo in an attempt
to make the unruly herd
more manageable.

The US. Fish and Wildlife
Service and Grand ’l‘eton Na—
tional Park studied four ways
to deal with the problem and
chose shooting as the prefer-
red method of cutting the
herd.

“We explored all the possi-
bilities from trappmgirans-
planting to a hunting: pro
gram- to more exotic ti
lilte sterilizing." said refuge
biologist Bruce Smith. “What
we decided to do was to have
a direct herd reduction."

Government officials
would shoot the bison over
the next tune to five years.
The dead animals would be
given to Indians.

Among alternatives con--
sidered were fencing the bi-
son permanently ‘in Grand
Teton National Park and're-
placing the group entirely
witl’i animals that do not nat—
urally migrate to the elk ref
uge.

Officials said shooting is a
short-term strategy so agen-
Cies will continue to looit for
a int-ig—term solut ion.

The federal study saidhui-
falo degrade big game habi-
tat on the refuge. increase
the probability of spreading
bruccllosis. cost money to
feed and endanger public and
private property including
eltt. refuge persornu‘f. part:
\‘isi‘: ors and litn‘scs

 

Gator trapping
approved; panther
dispute on hold

TALLAHASSEE (AP) — A re-
stricted trapping season for wild al-
ligators was approved Friday by
state wildlife officials, but they de-
layed action on an Everglades hunt:
ing controversy involving the
endangered Florida panther.

The Florida Game and Fresh
Water Fish Commission also voted
to ban the harvest of gopher tortois-
es, once widespread and a staple of
the rural Florida diet but now a rel-
atively rare animal.

The gator trapping season, set
for Sept. 1-30, does not signal a re-
turn to unregulated hunting of the
reptiles, said Frank Montalbano, di-
rector of wildlife for the commis-
sion.

“During the season, selected
trappers and their agents may take
specified numbers of adult alliga-
tors from management units estab-
lished by the five commissioners,”
he said.

The commission staff is evaluat-
ing which lakes, rivers, wetlands
and other water bodies should be
included in the management units.
Harvest quotas and other restric-
tions then will be recommended to
the commission.

“Trappers may apply for per-
mits July 1 and July 15,” Montai-
bano said. “Applicants will be
selected at random and authorized
to take no more than 15 alligators
each. The number of trappers to be
selected will depend on harvest quo-

; tas established by the five commis-

sioners.”

Commission staffers recom-
mended denial of a request by the
National Park Service to severely
restrict hunting in the Big Cypress
Wildlife Management Area, but the
commission postponed a decision
until its May 5-6 meeting.

Park officials contend there are
insufficient deer for both hunters
and theendangered Florida panther
which feeds mainly on deer, there
is a lack of data to justify extensive
hunting and that hunting is edging
out other recreational activities in
the Big Cypress.

The Park Service proposed a re-
duction in annual hunting days of
all kinds from 169 to 124 and for
gun hunting days from 58 to 32.

 

é/ ”1%




DAYTON DAILY NEWS - February 14, 1988

. CHICAGO — In a society as ethni-_
:ally and racially diverse as ours, there
are bound. to be occasional. cultural
misunderstandings.

j As an example, consider the recent
caSe of the man, the cat and the police
officer in Tulsa.

' An off-duty policeman was sitting .
home one day when he got a phone call '

from a neighbor.

The neighbor said that she saw
soinething strange -—- a man walking
down the street carrying a cat by its
neck. The cat appeared to be unhappy.

The officer hopped in his car and

drove a couple of blocks. Sure enough,

there was a man -- later identified as
one Huy Van Nguyen - with a plump
cat. But now he was carrying the cat by
his hind legs.

Since this isn’t the way cats are usu-
ally handled, the policeman became
suspicious. So he stopped his car and
ran up to the man and asked: “Is that
your pet?” ~

“Yes,” the man said,'continuing to
walk. .

The offiCer had his doubts, especially
since the cat was twisting around to
bite and claw the man’s hand.

It wasn’t clear what law the man
was violating, but the officer was sure
he was doing something wrong. That’s
the way police officers think.

So he decided to question the man
further. But before he got very far, the
man became agitated and swung the
angry cat at the officer like a club.

--l,§w‘"l‘he policeman managed to duck the

«“Eat and grab the man and they fell to
the pavement, where they wrestled a
bit.

The policeman eventually prevailed.

.wv' -

 

MIKE ‘
ROYKO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

He pinned the man down, while the cat,

'lts paw still in the man’s grip, clawed

and bit the man’s head. .
Finally the cat-holder said: “i let cat
go, you let me go.”
He released the cat, which streaked
away, bounding over a high fence.
After handcufflng Nguyen, the po-
liceman asked: “What were you doing

- with that cat?”

Nguyen calmly answered: “I was go-
ing to eat that ca .”

Horrified, the policeman said: “You
were going to eat a cat ”

“Yes,” Mr. Nguyen replied, “I was
going to eat that cat.”

Well, even in Oklahoma’s Dust Bowl
days, folks didn’t eat their house pets.
So the offlCer took Nguyen to the
station.

At first they weren’t sure what
charges to place against him. It is
against the law to steal a eat, but since
the cat had escaped, they had no evi-
dence that it was stolen.

A glance through the law books
showed that it is an Oklahoma crime to
work an animal to death, but there’s
nothing to prevent anyone from dining
on a cat.

So Nguyen was finally charged with

u — uhule- mw' Nit; J‘J..A‘. A A

....-..~

 

in time, newcomers’ tastes become American; hot dog!

assault —— trying to hit the officer with
a cat -— and resisting arrest.

A man sent me news stories about it '

with a note that said: “My wife is

afraid to let our cat out by itself. Why .
aren’t there laws to prevent this sort of

thing.”

The answer to that is if you make
laws forbidding the eating of cats,
some vegetarians will demand that
there be laws preventing the consump-
tion of lambs, ducks, rabbits and other
little creatures.

If you think about it, what animal is
nicer than a lamb? Has a lamb ever
bitten or clawed a human? Yet, we eat
them by the millions. Or cute little
ducks? As you eat a duck, do you ever
think of Donald? People not only eat

deer without regard for Bambi’s memo— ,

ry, they go out and shoot them for the
fun of it. .

up its owner.

naturally. He is from a part of the
world where people think there is

nothing unusual about eating cats, dogs ..

and anything else that isn’t quick
enough to escape.

I’m sure the story of Nguyen and the
cat will upset many cat lovers. But they
should remember that, eventually, all

and take to our ways. Another genera-
tion or so, and the Nguyens won’t even
consider eating a cat.

They’ll become true Americans and
eat something like a veal Chop.

C’m here, you cute little calfie, and
get on my plate.
© 1988 THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE

 
 
   
    

 

 

 

BRITAIN oster protesting Inhumane

BRITAIN
Fﬁsrrgr
Furor

The elegant, fur-clad woman
sports a bloody animal paw
worn as an earring and a steel
trap as a brooch. Her picture is

; accompanied by this warning:
In contrast, if the average little cat ; THE LEG HOLD TRAP-“FOR AN-

was the size of a deer, it might gobble '

IMALS THAT DON’T GET STRAN-

' GLED, BEATEN, GASSED OR
Nguyen was just doing what coﬂlﬁ...

ELECTROCUTED. That poster is
part of a campaign by Britain’s
animal lovers to publicize the
inhumane manner in which
many fur coats are produced.
The government is expect-
ed to introduce a law this
spring requiring coats made
from lynx, coyote, wolf, bobcat

' 1 t t'
immigrant groups become assimilat ed 2 or fox to carry a labe s a mg

that the fur comes from “ani-

~ mals commonly caught in leg-

hold traps.” The British Fur
Trade Association said it was
not overly worried, since the
law applies only to skins of
wild animals and some 85% of
all skins sold in Britain are

- farm-bred. But the B.F.T.A.

complained that' the move
could hamper its research
“into humane trapping
methods.”

TIME - February 29, 19;”

     

. I ‘ w, tightly-1 Hus fut imria , -
4 .“ > 2 r f- » , .
2 ,, . i} “ﬁner, ,. ‘, 2 m an. «mannmmma- Cm: Illif .
2:22; 41' , . " “ .‘5-1 -‘

 

  
     
  
  
    

as mass wish-"X2
“' matchiasrgg 2 f‘
accessories“

  

 

 

 

trapping methods

 

W




 

dallas times herasld — March 21. WRR

Dogged counselin
retrains pet owners

By Nancy Jay
OF THE TIMES HERALD STAFF

HELSEA HAS a behavior problem. Al- _

though she’s made a lot of friends in

her Plano apartment complex, the 3-

year-old doesn’t like to be kissed and
distrusts strangers, especially men. Not know-
ing where else to turn, Chelsea and her family
go to counseling.

Ellise Pierce sits. on the couch, her excitable
baby nearby, and tells the counselors she feels
guilty about keeping 4-month-old Coco in the
house all day. “I’ve tried to baby-proof my
house. Everything she can pull down or put in
her mouth is up on high shelves or in cabi-
nets.” As one of the counselors furiously takes
notes, the other puts a rawhide chew in Coco’s
mouth.

Things have changed a lot since the days
when Dick and Jane saw Spot run. Today’s
Dick and Jane may feel guilty about Spot’s
behavior and take Spot to a behavior Counsel-
or.

“Unless the dog can talk, they aren’t being
counseled,” says Bonnie Beaver, a Texas A&M
professor who works with animal behavior
problems. It’s the owners who are being put
through therapy, animal style.

Whether you call it the dog awareness
movement, exploring dog potential or the ani-
mal version of EST, animal behavior counsel-
ing is a product of the 19605, according to
Michael W. Fox, vice president of bioethics at
the Humane Society of the United States.

“That’s when we explored human potential
and shifted away from control to respect
and understanding. It’s realizing that so—called
misbehavior in dogs is an adjustment or

Please see DOGS, 0-5

M

 




  

emotional problem caused by the owner‘s
misunderstanding of his pet,” Fox says.

“I don’t enjoy the guilt trip on [dogs] own-
ers,” says William Campbell, an animal be-
havior consultant. “Most owners do whatever
they do in good faith. But they have to recog-
nize they have a role in the cause [of their
dogs behavior problems] in order to correct
that behavior.” .

Whatever happened to plain old obedience
school?

Dog obedience is “a rather rigid way of
making another being adapt to conditions
under which you wish to keep it,” says Fox.
“In obedience training, you don’t need much
understanding and you obtain no degree of
empathy. .

“Behavior counseling goes much deeper
into understanding an animal’s motives,” ex-
plains Fox. “It’s a subtle fusion of wills with
a complete identiﬁcation with the animal.”

Campbell agrees. “Behavior counseling
and obedience training are quite different. To
counsel means to chat and obedience is ac-
tion. In counseling, the owner will have an
attitude shift and understand how the dog

ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH - March 26, 1988

  

 

 

 

    

picks up the owner‘s habits.”

That’s {not to say obedience training
doesnt do’some good. The basic obedience
commands -—_heel, come, sit, down,__stay ——

establish the owner as leader to maintain
dominance over the dog, says Peter L. Bor-
chelt. president of Animal Behavior Consul-
tants. But, he suggests, just like the well-con-
trolled child who has no social graces, an
obedient dog can have a behavior problem.

A dog’s problems are usually owner-relat-
ed, according to Phillip Marr of Park Cities
ObedienceSchool. “It’s easier to change the
dog’s behavior than the owner’s.” Although
obedience training is the mainstay of Marr’s
technique, he and his wife have expanded to
private behavior counseling sessions in the
dog owner's home.

The Canine Counselors’ Marty Martin and
Helen Cariotis require a dog proﬁle sheet,
asking about the dog’s environment, care and
feeding, activities and problems before see-
ing a client. “From that we’re able to get a
pretty good idea of what’s going on,” says
Cariotis, “even though peOple are sometimes
hesitant in being candid about their pets.”

Not so Kris Burkett, a Plano school teacher
whose 21/2-year-old cocker spaniel had a dan-
gerous aggression problem, particularly to-
ward her roommate. She sent a letter to The
Canine Counselors, along with the proﬁle
sheet, detailing Chelsea’s behavior problems.
“[Chelsea] went through separation anxiety
syndrome She doesn’t like to be kissed
. . . She was left with a man and who knows
what he did to her,” wrote Burkett,

“Part of the problem,” says Cariotis.
[Burkett] humanizes Chelsea.”

The counseling is held in The Canine
Counselors’ Duncanville office, a small room

“

is

 

 

 

Sealed Fate

Actress Loretta Swit Cuddling a ham seal on an ice pack in
the Gulf of St. Lawrence to show her relief that Canada has
outlawed the commercial slaughter of the baby seats.




THE DEKALB‘NEIGHBOR - Atlanta - March 30, 1988

Ban on

By Scott R. Akin
Neighbor News Editor

Once again a proposal to ban pit
bull terriers in DeKalb county died
for lack of support from county
officials.

Proposed by Commissioner John
Evans, the ban failed to carry the
approval of the DeKalb County
Board of Commissioners March 22
by a vote of 2-5.

Commissioner Brince Manning III
provided the only other vote in favor
of banningthe‘ibreedrrmm*wwrﬁ .

The ban, proposed and defeated
for the second time in nine months,
was proposed by Evans in response
to the recent attack on 2-year-old
Chatt Hyder, who was mauled to
death March 11 by pit bulls owned by
Currie Hobbs of Stone Mountain.
Both Evans and Manning had also
voted for the ban when it was
proposed in July.

“I think we need to start thinking
in our own minds about what is
reasonable,” Evans told com-
missioners after the vote. “We need
to do what we have to do to try and
protect the lives of people in the
county.”

Evans’ proposed ordinance would
have banned from DeKalb pit bull
terriers, Staffordshire bull terriers,
American pit bull terriers, Ameri-
can Staffordshire pit bull terriers,
mixed breed pit bull dogs and “any
dog which has the appearance and
characteristics of being
predominantly of the breeds of bull
terrier.”

Had the ordinance been approved,

Commissioner John Evans
Stop DeKolb deaths by pit bulls

DeKalb Public Safety Director F.J.
Hand said he doubted the animal
control department had the staff to
enforce it.

“We really don’t know what we’re
dealing with.” Hand said. Although
there are about 275 to 300 pitbulls
registered with DeKalb Animal
Control, there are probably more in
the county that aren’t registered. he
said. 1

None of the nine pit bulls im-
pounded as a result of the Hyder
death were registered with the
county, and animal control had ’no
reports of their existence, animal
control officials said.

Several DeKalb residents turned
out to express support for a pit bull

ban. Many women said they were
concerned as mothers for the safety
of their. children.

“I’m very upset at the recent
mauling. I feel an effective vicious
animal law needs to be enacted,”
said Trudy Monaco of Stone Moun-
tain.

Ms. Monaco asked the board to
consider county legislation that
would define a “vicious dog” as one

l5)it bulls rejected

, that takes an aggressive stance or

chases people, but one that has not
necessarily bitten someone.

“I do feel (pit bulls) constitute a
vicious animal,” said DeKalb resi-
dent Sherry Richardson.

Commissioners opposing the ban
said that a ban wasn’t the solution.

“I am in sympathy, and (the
recent mauling) is a horrible thing. ”
said Commissioner Robert Lanier,
“but I’ve not seen anything to
indicate that if we (ban pit bulls) it’s
going to eliminate the problem.”

“I think a breed specific-ban will
not work; there’s a serious constitu-
tional problem with it,” said Come
missioner Sherry Schulman.

One resident, opposed to a ban on
pit bulls, also adressed the board.

“Breed-banning doesn’t work;
law enforcement does," said Linda
North of Decatur. Ms. North sug~
gested the county foster closer ties
with such organizations as the
Humane Society of the United States
to improve county animal control.

For county residents in favor of
the ban, Evans suggested they get
together and “mobilize” for a
concerted effort to lobby county
officials.

 




DeKalb continues vm.

By Scott R. Akin
Neighbor Staff Writer

Despite what DeKalb County
Commissioner Sherry Schulman de-
scribed as “a crisis of confidence”
in county government, animals im-
pounded by DeKalb Animal Control
will continue to be donated to
scientific institutions for research.

A proposal to stop all such-

transfers to research institutions,
particularly Emory University, fail—
ed to win a majority support from
the DeKalb County Board of Com-
missioners March 22.

The motion, by Commissioner
Robert Morris, called for halting all
animal transfers from DeKalb
Animal Control to research institu-
tions until the county department
was using owner-release forms. The
form, signed by the animal’s former
owner, would be the former owners’
consent for animal contol to release
the animals for research.

The proposal died 3-4, with Com-
missioners Schulman and John
Evans supporting Morris. Schulman
and Evans serve on the board’s
Animal Control Policy Committee;
Morris is the chairman.

Morris’ motion was actually a
substitute motion for Ms.
Schulman’s motion to stop all
animal transfers indefinitely.

Ms. Schulman brought the subject
up after learning that the county
was still transferring impounded
animals to Emory University for
research. She said she had been
promised by DeKalb Animal Control
Drirector Capt. Harry Woods that
no such transfers would occur until

37 . ' -..
‘\ .
r
i . . -
._ - 2' . - -:~'.;-.
1‘ .
_;;-;; ‘1’; ‘

' Sherry Schulman

Transfers a ‘crisis in confidence.’

i
i

 

 

a n i m a I s E m o ry r e s e

Commissioner B. Manning
Animal transfers to Emory legal

by the Animal Control Policy Corn-
. mlgtceheulman said Woods made the
' promise after DeKalb SUP€T1°F
" Court Judge Robert Casteliam or-
dered the county in November to
i: comply with its own ammal controd
50rdinance mandating impounde
ianimals be held for 10 days before
Lam, ________________.._..———
‘disposition. Castellani’s order also
precluded the county from selling
animals to research institutions.
“I just don’t believe this govern-
ment can say one thing and do
another,” Schulman said.
. Woods, who could not be reached
Qfor comment, had no authority to
rmake that promise, said DeKalb

 

'__i

Pubilic Safety Director F.J. Hand.
. Animal contro. .is following coun~
' ty policy and the court order to the
‘ letter, Hand said. No animals have
been sold but about 20 have been
i donated, he said, which is not
.‘ prevented by either county ordi-
p nance or court order.
i “Animal contrnl is adhering to a

/

policy the board hasn’t

' . . changed ”
sa ' ’
mid Commxssroner Brince Manning

Ms. Schulman said sh

e was

lilipset about the fact that the brcilaorsdt
cggtrnithbeen informed by animal
ing. 0 t at transfers were continu-

“It’s not a question of legality, it’s

_ a question of public perception,” she
said.

Commissioner Jean Williams,
who said she favored using animals
for research, agreed.

“The perception of the public was
that all transfers of animals to

Emory by the count had t ”
she said. y s opped,

 




 

USA TODAY - March 22, 1988'

Freese, Fido!
Mich. dogcatchers want guns

By Phil Jurik and Sue Nichols
USA TODAY

LANSING, Mich. ‘—- In a dog-eat—person world, animal
control ofﬁcers here would prefer that Fido eat lead.

Dogcatchers Thursday will ask Ingham County commis-
sioners for permission to pack pistols.

“It’s getting more difficult to ﬁnd ofﬁcers willing to tackle
three Great Danes” —- as happened to dogcatchers in J anu-
ary, said Ingham animal control chief Bob Burgess.

Proponents say ofﬁcers need protection as vicious dogs
become more popular. Opponents worry about arming
neighborhood dogcatchers for high-noon showdowns.

Some USA animal control ofﬁcers are armed —— but they
usually are sheriff’s deputies doubling as dogcatchers, said
Robert Lee of the National Animal Control Association.

Often, it’s not the dogs that scare animal ofﬁcers. “I’ve
been doing this for 17 years and I’ve never had to draw my
gun on an animal,” said Sgt. Joseph Maniaci in Macomb
County, Mich. “It’s the people that you worry about.”

 

 

5 ’Jeﬁtt punod 009 o ’91an iHDOOWS

sgq 1.1th qu ’AopuoH uoa JaUMo sgq tum; 555).

(D
0-.-
U,
D
_.'
3‘
(D
I
9.
E
Q
‘<
m
.1-
"‘
Q
<
‘2.
.4.
3"
(D
i
O
2..
CL
.0
(D
"‘
q‘

q—fi
9.3";
u, .
m?”
o._‘5_,
0"
<3:
4-0—
m
:3“:
03}:
Star,
Com'r
«(0‘
'9. '0
mm”:
92.9.0
333
03m
“5.3.
3":
(1,50%
2 2.
03m
39g
c
egg
003%.
3-2“
0
6‘39,
02‘”-
- O.
5183

O

840:) ng new, qigM suogiuaAuoa puo sesno

up u; ﬁuumo

 

Am), 9’!N

 

 

wafﬂe.“ ’
“up. , '
.

3:3, I; <
1.0., . a)? .

~.~ C... u.»< ..A -._ A“

 

 

HEIEIIIIONEI WNOILVN

886T. ‘62 [{3qu

 




 

 

THE DENVER POST - March 16, 1988

What is the value of wildlife?

RECENT WYOMING Supreme Court case
Aprovides important insight. into how our public
wildlife agencies and, indeed, our legal system,
view the value of wildlife. A Wyoming hunter who
held a license to kill one moose, but shot three, ap-
pealed his poaching conviction to the high court.
Though upholding his conviction (the evidence
against him was conclusive), the high court did re-
turn the case to the lower court with instruction to
recalculate the costs assessed the illegal hunter.

Wyoming Supreme Court Justice Walter Urbigkit
questioned the manner in which state wildlife offi-
cials had derived the value of the two dead moose for
which the hunter was charged. Acknowledging that a
live moose may indeed be economically valuable as a
potential hunting trophy and/or wild tourist attrac-
tion, the justice was unconvinced that officials had
objectively arrived at a definitive dollar value, given
the contending uses to which the moose might have
been put. Besides, the justice observed, “a moose to
you may be (only) a mouse to me,” further stressing
the difficulty of human objectivity in the case of valu-
ing something so obviously subjective. That it may
have been quite beside the point to consider the worth
of a living moose solely on economic grounds seem-
ingly never occurred to the high court.

This is rather typical of how government wildlife
agencies and our economic and legal systems view
wildlife values. Operating from an utilitarian or in-
strumental-worth premise in which all non—human ob-
jects may have real value, if at all, only if humans
subjectively grant it, most wildlife species are con-
ceived as exploitable natural resources — sort of a
wild crop to be “managed” for subsequent “harvest”
(professional jargon for “killed by hunting”) provid-
ing economically valuable “hunter-days” or “fisher-
man-days.” An illegally killed moose is indeed killed
illegally, therefore, because of its market. value loss
to -- in this case — the state of Wyoming. The illegal
hunter is punished only because he caused indirect
economic harm to his fellow citizens. If the moose
. felt any loss in dying, well, that is not a matter for
justice to consider.

If the Wyoming justice was baffled by contradicto-
ry dollar values for two dead moose, many persons
find deeper, more fundamental contradictions in the
way public agencies View the existence of a moose,
bear, elk — or even a mouse. Many wildlife advo-
cates believe that there exists a far more profound
question than how to efficiently extract the maxi-
mum human-interest value for a given species. The
question is whether or not it is ever shot (“har-
vested”) by a hunter or even seen by a tourist.

The problem, writes Colorado State University phi-
losopher Holmes Rolston, is one of an ethically defi-
cient. and confused environmental axiology — how do
we morally value nature? Is nature to be valued
strictly as a product of human-interest satisfaction,
or does it, perhaps have intrinsic worth? If the latter,
how do we respond to nature (and wildlife)?

by CHARLES
HAYNES

 

“Future historians,” writes Rolston in the scholarly
journal “Environmental Ethics” (1982), “will find our
century remarkable for its breadth of knowledge and
narrowness of value judgments. To devalue nature
and inflate human interests is to do business in a false
currency.”

Those who accord nature objective worth in its
own right historically took comfort in our national
wildlife refuge system. These “inviolate sanctuaries“
ostensibly serve the wildlife that live in them, not
strictly human interests. On a disjunct area compris-
ing less than 4 percent of the total land area of the
US, wildlife could conceivably exist in accordance
with ages-old patterns of adaptation and survival re-
moved from the threat of human depredation. Hu~
man intrusion was minimal, yet through research, ed-
ucation, and other forms of soft-exploitation, human
interests could still be served. And, given the nearly
460 million acres of public lands, comprising an area
four times that of the refuges, in addition to an even
greater private acreage nationwide for “resource
harvest,” refuge designation is unquestionably a pru-
dent and ethical use of these lands.

Teddy Roosevelt, a skilled and celebrated hunter,
who established the first refuge in 1903, certainly
thought so. The inviolate refuge system meant that'at
least some animals could roam freely within the ref-
uges’ boundaries, living out their natural lives, with-
out feeling the hunter’s bullet or the varied agonies of
the trapper.

Unfortunately, this scenario has not been the case
since the 1960s. That was when the US. Fish and
Wildlife Service, the public agency responsible for
managing the refuge system, Opened more than 250
of the 435 refuges to hunters and trappers. The ex-
ploitable resource premise was thus extended evento
these “inviolate sanctuaries.” In an extreme sense of
oxymoron, they are still called “refuges.”

In the final analysis, it is likely that there will al-
ways be two contending philosophies when it comes
to how we value and manage our rich wildlife heri-
tage — each certain that the other is operating from
false premises. But it seems somehow unfair that the
“exploitable resource” mentality has run roughshod
over the “intrinsic worth” view and, given the vast
opportunities for hard exploitation of wildlife by hunt.-
ers and their ilk elsewhere outside the so-called “ref -
uges,” it seems clearly unreasonable.

Charles M. Haynes has worked as an ejwironmental consultai’u and
as an employee of the Colorado Division of Wildlife. US. Fish and
Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service.

 




A A2 The Arizona Republic

Sunday, March 20. 1988

Persistent predator
taking over niche
of vanished wolves

By Bob Dvorchak

The Associated Press

BRAVE, Pa. -- The first sheep was
killed on Earl Cole‘s farm last March,
then another, and another, and
another. Within 10 months, at least 80
lambs and ewes worth $10,000 were
slain on his farm and an adjoining
one.

Predatory teeth tore the sheeps’
throats or pierced their skulls, and
their soft inner organs were eaten. All
clues point to coyotes, an Old West
predator whose numbers are growing
in the East.

“It’s circumstantial evidence. No-
body’s actually seen a coyote kill the
sheep. But it pretty much has to be
coyotes,” said Cole. 67, who tends 100
head of sheep on his ZOO-acre Greene
County farm.

To convince skeptics, Cole paid a
trapper $50 to prove the coyotes
existed.

Five female coyotes have been
trapped or shot near the scene of the
crimes -— rolling pasture 60 miles
south of Pittsburgh. as opposed to the
high grassy plains of Wyoming or
Montana.

That‘s good enough for Richard
Belding, landsmanagement officer for
the Pennsylvania Game Commission,
who calls the evidence “overwhelm~
ing” and “conclusive."

Before 1980. only six cases of
coyotes killing sheep had been verified
in Pennsylvania. The new run-ins with
farmers are evidence that the coyote,
preceded by its mystique and villain-
oiJs reputation, has brought its eerie
yips and howls to new territory.

The Eastern coyote has some wolf
and dog genes, and the biggest ones
weigh 55 pounds.

All coyotes feast on mice, rabbits,
deer, carrion, grasshoppers, fruits and
berries. Some also kill lambs, calves,
goats. chickens, geese, pigs. barnyard
cats, llamas and other domestic
livestock.

Coyotes have pilfered watermelons
on California farms, In October.
coyotes killed 48 flamingos in the Los
Angeles Zoo after keepers mistakenly
left the birds’ pen open.

Coyotes. vanished from Pennsyl-
Vania 10,000 years ago during the lee
Age They began returning in the late

 

 

 

 

The Associated Press

A coyote looks over the Pennsylvania countryside. Since last March,
coyotes have killed at least 80 lambs and ewes on two farms.

1890s when the practice of clear-cut-
ting the state’s forest exterminated the
wolf by destroying its habitat.

“They’re filling an ecological niche
created when we eliminated the wolf,”
said Dr. John George, a senior
biologist at Penn State University.
“The coyote is very resourceful.
People have tried to poison them and
trap them. It’s tough to get rid of
every last one.”

Helen McGinnis, who did a study
on coyote populations as part of her
master’s degree at Pennsylvania State
University, said, “There are coyotes in
every Eastern state.” “The popula-
tions are building up and will continue
to build up. I have a lot of admiration
for them. They‘re intelligent. They’re
adaptable.”

Biologists believe coyotes migrated
from the Great Plains in a giant arc
north and east around the Great
Lakes about 90 years ago. The route
took them into Ontario. then. south to
New England. New York, Pennsylva-
nia and Appalachia. Others pushed

 

east from the Plains, and some were
imported to be hunted by wollhounds
and sportsmen, McGinnis said.

Each year, an estimated lmillion
sheep, or 10 percent of the national
stock, are killed by predators, and
coyotes account for 90 percent of that,
according to the US. Department of
Agriculture. The loss is valued at
$70 million.

“It‘s our Number 1 preventable
loss. This is the single-largest cost of
production that we think is revers-
ible,” said Dan Murphy, president of”
the National Wool Growers Associa-
tion.

The number of sheep ranchers has
dwindled to 125,000, from 225,000 in
the 19605, said Clair Terrill, former
director of sheep research for the
Agriculture Department.

“I only know one good coyote. and
that‘s a dead coyote," said Rick
Moore of Harrison County. Ohio,
where farmers pay a bounty of S25.

Don Patterson. president of a
sheepgrowers association in Greene :

 

 




IO

oison it into oblivion.

government banned
that

Hoard
a learned skill,

lands,

animals

farmers to use poison collars on sheep
d in Wyo-

attempts
the coyote is

ironment. So far, the
They say
y also keep mice

tote has outsmarted and
ernment

the

poisonous baits on federal
met two dozen restrictions to

because non-target

were being killed.

cket.”
king a sheep is
and not all coyotes kill livestock. Most

1972,
In 1983, the government a

Wildlife groups say

The coy
outlasted gov

“Coyotes are opportunistic. They’re

County. Pa. calls coyotes “a damned
nuisance. They’re taking money out of

collars have been approve
ming. Montana and Texas.
unfairly maligned.
avoidhumans. The

populations in check.

,
our po
shoot, trap and p
In
partly
if they
protect the env
attac

INSIGHT MAGAZINE - April 4, 1988

 

lailiiwaamhl

Remember, Owners,
It’s a Dog’s Life

LONDON, March 14 -- Animal
lovers who treat their dogs like lords are
the target of a three-year study at Cam-
bridge University. Experts will study
the behavior problems of dogs to see
how difﬁculties originate and examine
ways in which they can be prevented.
“People often treat their dogs as human
beings and they are not,” said Dr. James
Serpell, director of Cambridge Animal
Research Group.

“If you buy a dog you have to try to
understand it and treat it as an animal.
But a lot of people treat it as a child and
allow it to get away with more and more
until the dog becomes very demanding
indeed and gets ideas above its station.
1 have heard cases of dogs sleeping on
the owner’s bed and even where the dog
insisted on sleeping on the bed alone,
obliging the owner to sleep elsewhere.
It can become very silly.”

The study will look at how problems
arose by examining the lives of 100
pups of all types. Dr. Serpell said: “We
will compare the lives of those dogs
which develop problems and those
which do not, and we will then hope—
fully get an idea of what happens in the
early life of a dog.”

9.

Hagood of

said Susan

evil,”

= Defenders of Wildlife, a Washington,
She said coyotes can be discouraged

by guard dogs, electric fences, placing
“It would be a waste of time, effort

and money to try to eliminate them,
millions of dollars and failed to

Hagood said. “The government spent
eradicate the coyote.

selective shooting or trapping of sheep

ewes in sheds when they lamb and
killers.

DC .sbased group with 80,000 mem—

bers nationwide.

‘ not

“We would hate to see. Eastern
states adopting Western philosophies

and making the same mistakes.”

Shrimpers Must Use
Turtle Protectors

Shrimpers in Louisiana must begin
using a device designed to save sea tur-
tles, a federal judge has ruled, dismiss-
ing a suit by the state’s Ofﬁce of the
Attorney General that claimed the traps
have not been adequately tested and
their use could lower seafood revenues.

The National Marine Fisheries Ser-
vice ordered the use of turtle excluding
devices, which are special cages at-
tached to shrimp nets, this year along
the Atlantic and Gulf coasts to protect
ﬁve species listed as endangered or
threatened. Shrimpers say they will lose
as much as 25 to 50 percent of their
catch as a result of the device and ques-
tion its effectiveness in saving turtles.

“The attorney general believes the
TEDs may not work at all in Louisiana
waters because they haven’t been tested

here,” says Assistant Attorney General

Elizabeth Megginson. .

Nonetheless, Judge Patrick E. Carr ;
of the New . Orleans~based Districtf
Court for Eastern Louisiana ruled the;
government had relied on sufﬁcient data '
in issuing the , regulation. -

percussions on

native wildlife,” said Ronald Novak of
the US. Department of the Interior.

v

'.M.;;‘.. x .

x

‘ blesome coyotes, but the animals
gare not signiﬁcantly damaging the

Some states havestudied the effects

“As far as I know, the coyote has

T:

"Got” coyotes on deer populations. In
li-iaine, selective trapping eliminates

‘fiki'ou

t

“It does not appear to be a disaster. If
it is causing peOple problems, people

not had any serious re
have themselves to blame.”

deer herd.

.‘p.

Levy on Gasoline

In Pennsylvania, where coyotes can

be hunted or trapped year-round, they
number an estimated 2,000 to 3,000.

  

Could Benefit Wlldllfe
The General Accounting Ofﬁce has re—
leased a report that examines the potential
revenues from the use of existing gasoline
excise taxes as a funding statute for the Fish
and Wildlife Conservation Act of 1980,
which is designed to protect ﬁsh and wild—
life species not taken for sport, fur or food.
The study says that the current 9-cents.—a—
gallon tax on gasoline purchases, which
goes to the Highway Tiust Fund, could
generate $21 million to $48 million for the
program. The money would come from
taxes on fuel used in such residential equip-
ment as lawn mowers, chain saws and gar—
den tractors. The agency based its estimate
on gasoline consumption data from the
Outdoor Power Equipment Institute 2- .
The report notes that federal officials
have widely differing views on diverting
these revenues to fund the program. De—
partment of Transportation officials, for ex—
ample, are arguing against taking money
from the Highway Trust Fund for Wildlife
conservation, because it is unrelated to the
use of gasoline on the nation’s highways.
The Fish and Wildlife Service strongly sup—
ports this type of funding.

Philadelphia and Pitts-

‘ burgh,” said Arnold Hayden, a coyote .

“They’re probably everywhere but
expert with the Pennsylvania Game

"iloniiiiission.

downtown




16

Wednesday:
New-wave crops

Yesterday: a :
'ﬁnkering with
animal genetics

regulation

THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR

y
Ethical issues and

Biotechnology may seem at ﬁrst like a
scientiﬁc panacea. But there is another side.
Theologians and scholars are thinking about
how gene-alteration may affect our attitudes
toward animals and ourselves; others are
weighing risks to the environment.

By Robert C. Cowen
Staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor
Boston
T’S an unforgettable im-
age. Julianne Lindemann
of Advanced Genetic Sci-
ences, enveloped in “moon
suit” protective clothing, is
spraying genetically al-
tered bacteria on straw-
berry plants. In the back-
ground, news reporters and
other onlookers happily down
coffee and doughnuts. They
seem unconcerned about possi-
ble contamination by the mi—
crobe that, according to some
stories ﬁled that day, was a po-
tential environmental menace.

Thus began the ﬁeld test of
so-called ice-minus bacteria.
This is a strain of the common
field bacterium Pseudomonas
syn'ngae, with a gene removed
so the microbe no longer pro-
motes frost on plants. The bacte-
ria were released in Brentwood,
Calif, April 24, 1987, after four
years of sometimes bitter court
battles, public hearings, and reg-
ulatory delays.

As the ﬁrst planned release of
a genetically engineered organ-
ism proposed in the United
States, the ice-minus test has be-
come a classic case study. Ex-
perimenters and critics alike re—
fer to it when they consider the
safety of allowing products of
the genetic engineer increasingly
to enter our environment.

“That experiment was prob-
ably the most highly publicized
single experiment in the history
of biological science,” says Ar-
thur Kelman, a University of
Wisconsin bacteriologist. “And
yet,” he adds, “on the basis of
what we knew about that organ-
ism, it probably was one of the
safest ‘ first experiments that
have ever been done.”

For biologists such as Profes-
sor Kelman, the “moon suit”
photograph symbolizes both
what is rational and what is ri—
diculous in the ﬁeld-test safety
debate. Scientists felt at the time
that only exaggerated fear lay
behind the California Depart-
ment of Health Services order
for Dr. Lindemann to wear pro-
tective gear. Lindemann’s col-
league Trevor Suslow wore only

a standard dust mask when he
applied the bacteria a second
time last December. Yet many
experts also believe that the ex-
tensive environmental studies
and highly visible caution ‘which
marked the ice-minus experi-
ment were justiﬁed in terms of
public responsibility. They pro-
vided knowledge to help allay
concern about this widely mis-
understood experiment. Future
experiments of comparable safe-
ty will probably require much
less scrutiny.

The Ofﬁce of 'llechnology As-
sessment (OTA) emphasizes this
in its recent report to the Con-
gress on ﬁeld testing gene tai-
lored organisms. Noting that
some two dozen such trials have
already been held in ﬁve coun—
tries, it points out that the pace
of ﬁeld testing is accelerating.

More than 300 companies in
the United States — let alone uni—
versities and government labo-
ratories - are developing geneti-
cally engineered products. The
eventual applications for ﬁeld

' tests would overwhelm govern-

ment regulators if they tried to
consider every case as inten-
sively as they did the ice-minus
experiment. OTA suggests that
Congress consider a system to
regulate ﬁeld tests according to
their degree of risk.

The National Academy of Sci-

ences urged a similar strategy
last September. Dr. Kelman, who

chaired the academy’s study '

'committee, says that this strat—
egy reﬂects general scientiﬁc
opinion. At the American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of
Science annual meeting in Febru-
ary, he told the press:

“Even though there appears
to be a debate, ... actually the
areas of agreement are greater
than one might expect. And so if
one were to ask even those peo-
ple who have expressed the
deepest concern whether they
would agree with the statement
that most introductions into the
environment represent rela-
tively low risk or no signiﬁcant
risk, I think that you would ﬁnd
there is a consensus on that. You
would also ﬁnd there is a con-
sensus that there may be prob—
lems and that these problems

 

have to be recognized."

'11) tackle the problems of as-
sessing environmental risks,
both the Kelman committee and
the OTA distinguish between
tests that are inherently safe

' and those that are inherently

risky. They urge regulators to
reserve detailed scrutiny for
the latter. Field tests in which a
small change is made in a
known harmless organism, such
as a crop plant, which is then
put back into its usual environ-
ment, need less regulation than
does the release of organisms
that might become new weeds

I 1
n . , 1‘ . '
’ ," , ’1/ . ‘ ‘ /
‘.l “ l ‘ . I Q I .' i I
\ . , . . . ‘ . ‘u‘ a
. i' v \ . ' , ...:
. . , g .
., - ,. . . ... . ' , :1 . _
- . ‘ 3 ‘ - 1 , I ‘ . _. r , :7 \.
~'l‘ 2" ’ - ' . ' ' I' 4
' . ' .
‘,' .1 _Z 'l .. . . . ‘ f t ,
. ,, - ' — a , . 5 .
...x;. . -, \. -. . \I. ;, \g
t . \ 3“: - , . . . ,
. ...! ‘\» ‘~ I. .‘. . ‘ . ‘ " -
l V - ‘ ' ~. w.‘ .l .
we .‘ V '5', I . ' ' ‘ .A‘ ‘
_ r \ s_. P ; ‘_-'
x ‘1. ' - , ‘ 3, .a
K: "r
l ‘ "... ' ‘
. _ - v.
e 3‘. r
v

. ) 42%“ ~
@959

k .
3

or pathogens, they say.
Kelman explains: “Weeds
diﬁer from crop plants and
pathogens from nonpathogens
in a large number of traits. Most
weeds grow vigorously, pro—
duce large numbers of seeds,

germinate readily, and spread '

over wide areas. Most patho-
gens have the ability to invade
plants or animals, resist defense
systems of the organisms they
invade, form toxic chemicals
that injure or kill cells, repro-
duce and spread . . . rapidly and
invade new organisms. They
can also survive under adverse

conditions in the environment.
“Each of these traits is ex-
pressed through several genes
or clusters of genes. The trans-
fer of a few individual genes
unrelated to characteristics
contributing to weedlike attrib-
utes or pathogenicity, there-
fore, are not likely to turn a
crop plant into a weed or a

harmless microorganism into a

pathogen.”

'Ib make the point, he notes:
“If I have a petunia and I trans-
fer a gene for a different color
out of a bacterium, that’s a big
jump from a bacterium to a pe-

 




FRIDAY. JUNE 3. 1988

. BIOTECHNOLOGY}

i BITE: _

ii

.UGH?

8 NOILVULSD'HI

l8 USHdOlSIUHO A

' N

nia. . . . [But] it’s still a petu-
a. . . . It’s not going to become
killer petunia.”

Even though scientists can
«nk ﬁeld tests according to
sk, all tests will need at least
me regulation. Scientists still
in’t know enough to say some
.tegories of tests are so safe
ey need no supervision at all.

While acknowledging that
ost projects that can be done
day do seem safe, a Univer-
ty of Minnesota biologist,
*rilip Regal, told a Ibbruary
eeting of the American Asso-
ition for the Advancement of

Science: “I have yet to see any
genetic engineering textbook
that deals with safety when it
comes to the organisms that are
to be released in nature. Maybe
it’s best they don’t. We have a
way to go before that chapter
could be written responsibly.”

Meanwhile, some research is
under way to gain the basic
knowledge that, one day, could
lead to standardized tests for
ecological safety.

Pbr example, Clemson Uni-
versity, in partnership with the
Monsanto Company, is ﬁeld-
testing a soil bacterium —

ﬂuorescens - that
has two added genes to help in
tracking the microbe. These
genes enable the bacterium to
“eat” lactose, something the
wild form can’t do. This helps
distinguish the designer bacte-
rium in analyzing soil samples.
Ellis Kline and Horace Skipper
are testing this tracking system,
which Monsanto scientists Da-
vid J. Drahoe, Gerard Barry,
and Bruce Hemming developed.
Their test began at Clemson’s
ﬁeld station near Edisto, 8.0.,
last November. If successful,
the 18-month trial should give
ecologists a useful tool for moni-
toring bacterial releases.

Dr. Regal sees progress in
building the knowledge base. He
explains: “We have been think-
ing beyond the ice-minus bacte-
ria in California. It is silly to get
people concerned about things
like that. Dozens of scientists
have spent thousands of hours
working on more important is-
sues. NSF [the National Science
Foundation] and EPA [the Envi—
ronmental Protection Agency]
have awarded millions of dol-
lars for research in an attempt
to get some background infor-
mation. Gradually, we are
getting molecular biologists and
ecologists to work together."

“We’re at a point now where
things will develop,” says Kel-
man. “There are permits being
issued. There are organisms
now out in the ﬁeld. The Mon-
santo experiment in South
Carolina is in progress. It’s
slow. It’s agonizingly slow. . . .
But I’m optimistic that it [the
safety issue] will be resolved.”

 

— PERFECT POTATOES _

.5; 1‘.\\\‘\. ‘s

r w

. 2!, A“: \
:\§\\e£,
‘ ~\\\§‘\\ ;

\ gm]

: AND SUPER COW "

ANIMAL GENETICS WILL ERODE SANCITI'Y OF LIFE

By Curtis J. Sitomer
Staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor
Boston
In late April, a panel of ethi-
cists, environmentalists, and

 

«theologians representing Protes-

tant and Jewish groups asked
for a moratorium on the patent-
ing of genetically altered ani-
mals. These churchpeople and
scholars called animal patenting
“a matter of deep philosophical
and spiritual concern.” But their
focus on patenting is the out-
growth of even morebasic con-
cerns about biotechnology.

Most scientists say that the
search for better animal breeds
is as old as agriculture itself.
Crities, however, point out that
biotechnology allows us to alter
the breeds faster and to inter-
change genes between species.

' A position statement emanat-

ing from a Virginia symposium

said that the United States Pat-
ent Ofﬁce’s decision to grant a
patent for genetically altered
mice “portends fundamental
changes in the public’s percep—V
tion of, and attitudes toward,
animals.” Genetically engi-
neered animals “would be re-
garded as human creations, in-
ventions, and commodities
rather than as God’s creation or
subjects-of nature.”

If plant genetics has caused-

controversy, the genetic manip-
ulation of animals is raising even
broader ethical issues.

As early as last June, Michael
Fox, scientiﬁc director of the
Humane Society of the United
States, called it “very frighten-
ing” to treat animals as “simply
assemblies of genes” that can be
manipulated at will by humans.

Dr. Fox stressed that the in-
herent nature of animals needs
to be respected. He had no simi:
lar ethical reservations about
plants.

Jeremy Rifkin, president of
the Foundation on Economic
Trends and an outspoken critic
of genetic engineering, says that
the patenting of animals

“touches a raw nerve.” He ex-
plains that “it gives people a
sense that we’re talking about
reducing life to the status of a.
manufactured commodity, indis—
tinguishable from other com-
mercial products.” .

And 'Ibm Regan, president of
the North Carolina-based Cul-
ture and Animals Foundation,
puts it even more dramatically.
In a letter to the Washington
POst, he says: “Future genera-
tions will look back and shake
their heads in disbelief of the
government’s support of this un-
precedented attan upon the in—
tegrity of life. Here, for the ﬁrst
time, people are being granted
property rights over the life of
sentient creatures who are being
intentionally engineered to en-
sure their pain, deprivation,
stress, and untimely dea .”

Mr. Regan strongly urges
Congress to impose a morato—
rium on the patenting of geneti-
cally altered higher life forms.

The Rev. Wesley Granberg-
Michaelson, head of Montana’s
New Creation Institute, also
wants a hiatus on the granting of
such patents. But Mr. Granberg-
Michaelson has added this does
not mean all ethicists and theolo-
gians oppose all applications of
biotechnology or its potential
use in medical research. .

'He has explained that “ex-
tending the patenting process to

' higher life forms, including hu-

man genetic characteristies, will
give a powerful economic incen-
tive to assumptions which view

; life solely as ifit were amaterial

human invention.”

“The result is an arrogant and
mechanized view of the created
order which is religiously and
ethically ignorant and poses a
profound threat to the integrity
of the creation.”

The World Council of
Churches, which is sponsoring a
theological study on the “integ-
rity of creation," has warned
against the “consumerist and an-
thropomorphic world view

which denigrates both matte
and the extrahuman species.”

The World Council points on
that Christian theology, base
on Christ Jesus’ love for th.
world, requires human beings ti

“embrace the whole creatior
with compassion.”

Many worry that animal pat
enting will ultimately lead to ex
perimentation with humans.

This is a major concern of thr
Boston-based Committee for Re _
sponsible Genetics. N achamz
Wilker, the committee’s director
says that a 1980 US Supremr
Court ruling may have openec'
the door to the patenting of hu
man genes. She refers to the case
Diamond v. Chakrabarty, whicl
allowed the ﬁrst patent for 2
living organism.

Ms. Wilker also stresses that
there will be a great many legai
and moral questions springing
from patenting of animals — in—
cluding ownership rights and ge
netically produced oﬁspring.

Cliﬁ'ord Grobstein, professor
emeritus of biological science
and public policy at the Univer-
sity of California, San Diego, ex-
amines the moral values in-
volved in a recent column.

“We may already be on a slip
pery slope,” Professor Grobstein
writes. “If we were ready to pat-
ent bacteria, why not mice? If
mice, why not dolphins, why not
whales? If whales, why not go
rillas‘? If gorillas, why not peo
ple?

“What clearly emerges is that
the issue isn’t mice, it is our own
moral sense. What, in our own
values, is bigger and more signif-
icant about living things than
either patents or bucks?” He
says we will face this question in
respect to mice, dolphins, and
eventually ourselves.

“Patenting is sociological ma-
nipulation, and it and its com-

plex underlying rationale are
spreading,” he says. “Either
kind of manipulation can be ei-
ther beneﬁcial or dangerous,” he
concludes.

 




HOUSTON POST - May 2 5,

 

 

Milwa ukeé, WI

INTERSTATE TRAVELER - June 1988

Splisb Splash: Get Set For
The Zoo’s Summer Bash

This summer the Milwau-
kee County Zoo has a splashy
lineup of events, sure to please
the entire family. Waddle on
over for the following events:

June 4 Scouting the Zoo:-
Catch the scouting spirit at
the Zoo. Entertainment,
games and demonstrations
will take place all day.

June 11 Peck Welcome Cen-
ter Opening: Visit the Zoo for
the opening of the Peck Wel-
come Center, a state-of-the-
art visitor orientation center
and view a spectacular mul-
timedia presentation.

June 19 Father’s Day: Treat .

Dad to a wild and free day' at

. 7 the zoo. Dads must have a

coupon to receive free admis-
sion. Coupons will be availa-
ble at all Cousins Submarines
beginning June 1.

July 15-17 Teddy Bear Days:
Bring your teddy bear to the
Zoo for an activity—filled day
including a teddy bear break
fast, an ice cream . social, a
bear parade and more. .

'July 3031 Conservation
Days: Conservation depends
on you. Visit the Zoo and learn
about habitat destruction, wild-
life conservation, recycling,
domestic animals and more

TAT/[PA TRIBUNE - May 26, 1988

through a variety of educa-
tional exhibits.

The Zoo is located at 10001
E West Bluemound Road in Mil-

AP M eiGrOUPS file lawsuit to end , waukee.Formoreinformation

do 200 .

u

 

 

Le Le, Nan Nan share a snack Tuesday at the Tole

 

Chinese pandas steal the show
by cavorting at 200 ceremony

Under the cloud of a lawsuit,
the Chinese pandas Le Le and
Nan Nan waddled into their out—
door exhibit area at the Toledo
Zoo in Ohio Tuesday for their
first public appearances since ar-
riving from China and (lid what
most pandas enjoy -— ate bam—
boo shoots.

The 8Vé—year-old male and fe—
male animals wrestled, grabbed
one another’s bamboo shoots
and generally stole the show
from the speakers at the opening

ceremony. .

Meanwhile, the World Wildlife
Fund and the American Associa-
tion of Zoological Parks and
Aquariums filed a lawsuit in US.
District Court in Washington,
asking for an injunction to force
the Interior Department to con-
fiscate the pandas.

The organizations contend the
Toledo display is a threat to the
survrval of the giant panda, listed
as an endangered species.

Edwin Bergsmark, president
of the Toledo Zoological Society
and one of the chief negotiators
for the loan of the animals, called
the two conservation groups
‘:selfish” and promised to con-
tmue a legal fight to keep the
100—day exhibit open.

Curtis Bohlen, senior vice
presndent for the World Wildlife
Fund, which uses the giant pan-
da as its official symbol, said,
“Clearly, this was a hasty politi-
cal decision by interior officials.”

The suit also asks that the fed—
eral government cease granting
permits for the importation of
pandas

WASHINGTON (AP) —— Despite
a lawsuit, the Toledo Zoo is continu-
ing with an exhibition of two giant
pandas on lease from China.

The lawsuit, filed in US. District
Court by the World Wildlife Fund
and the American Association of
Zoological Parks and Aquariums,
seeks to force the pandas’ return to
China.

Officials at Tampa’s Busch Gar-
dens have declined comment on
whether its popular panda exhibit

 

will be affected by the lawsuit.

Busch Gardens began leasing
two pandas in November. The fe-
male, Yong Yong, returned to China
in April for scientists there to artifi-
cially inseminate her. Chinese gov-
ernment officials recently approved
a new contract allowing the remain-
ing panda, Ling Ling, to stay at
Busch Gardens until Sept. 17.

The two organizations filing the
lawsuit complained that panda ex-
hibits, which have consistently

panda exhibit at Toledo Zoo

caused sharp increases in ticket
sales at zoos and commercial
amusement parks, are illegal expldi-
tations of the endangered creatures.
Fewer than 1,000 giant pandas
are believed to exist in the wild,
confined to a shrinking habitat in
the Sichuan Province of China.
The lawsuit asked the court to
order that pandas in the Toledo Zoo
be returned to China as soon as is
consistent with their safety and
well-being. It also seeks an injunc-
tion to bar the Fish and Wildlife
Service from issuing permits for

any other panda imports into the

United States. . ’
At Busch Gardens, spokesma
David Conrod said the panda exhib-
it has drawn large crowds and that
attendance at the park has in~
creased, although he would not re-
lease figures. .

Staff writer Michael Dunn con-
tributed to this report.

I about the Zoo’s summer

events, please call (414) 771-
3040 (or 800-722-9237-and ask
. for Information Hotline).

W.» .4.

 




 

A LITTLE

PRIVACY, PLEASE

-r.. ~‘.~‘2L—~ 1747::

use»

Gorilla fans have a new worry:

They‘re afraid the San Diego
Zoo’s two male and two fe
male gorillas are sufficiently
‘ unhappy with their present
quarters to inhibit the produc-
tion of new baby gorillas.
Would they be happier with
heated floors, skylights and
possibly even cannecting
suites? After all, even gorillas
don‘t want to be together all
the time. ,
Concerned that there have
been only two gorilla births
in 25 years, the Rendezvous
at the Zoo committee has
planned a black-tie event to

 

 

raise money for more roman-
tic quarters. .
The present concrete habi-

SAN DIEGO MAGAZINE

.Jemow

Ltd 9

Arno am ‘edoou zap

 

1nt} Jan 01 uomppn wane] am

suo; $1 8; (mmneeg Samara) edoou pIO-maK-LI :saums tL 19 u; peqﬁgam
(JGAIIS sueem amen) uadog pIO-xeaM-OMJ,
salzznu ‘ooz apeusdgqm m cum: nemul enema}

fat was designed primarily for
cleanliness. But such a sterile
environment doesn’t challenge

JUNE1988

 

 

the intelligent, playful gorilla.
Grass and trees are necessary,
and a place to get away from
the public. To the shy gorilla,
a store is a threatening ges-
ture—so with 10,000 pepple
storing at them each day,
the two males spend a lot of
time charging around and
staring back.

With a pleasanter environ-
ment, and a little privacy,
Jeff Joueffe of the zoo figures
“there's no reason not to be
having a gorilla baby every
two or three years." A similarly
upgraded environment turned
the orangutans into such a
prolific group, they’re now on
birth-control medication.

The event is June 18, with
dinner under the'stars at the
zoo, $250 a person.

-V.B. -

 

SMEIN 'IVIOOS

8861 ‘gz Aew - pueIBug ‘uopuoq —

 

 

 

 

r.

{TELL XIIVCI

L.

HdVHD

 




May 22. I988

 

 

 

 




 

 

AROL FIESELER hugs Mshindi a lot because she and
other workers at the Children '3 Zoo have to be the 7~
month-old gorillas parents for a while. “His mother, Kiva, held
Mshindi and groomed him and protected him,” Fieseler said.

 

“But she wouldn’t let him nurse, so we had to take him. away. ”
Fieseler’s parents used to bring their four kids to the Zoo on
Sundays, and walk it from end to end. When Fieseler was 16, she
got a summer job at a concession stand, then was moved to the

 

 




Children’s Zoo when it opened in 1969. She’s still
there. “Mshindi is the Swahili word for ‘winner, ’ ”
F ieseler said. “He was born during the World
Series, when we had great hopes.”

 

 

 

The Special Bond
Between Zookeepers
And Their Charges

Story by John I. Archibald
”votes by Jerry Mannheim lr.
Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

T THE ZOO, the early birds not only

catch worms, but they catch the tigers

and bears and most of the other mam-

mals when they are most active. The

advice of St. Louis Zoo director Charles
Hoessle: If you have the choice, come earlier and
come often.

, “By midday, especially in the summer, most of the
animals take it easy, just as humans do,” Hoessle
said. “Visitors see the big cats lying in the shade,
almost motionless, and they look lazy. But that’s the
way it is in their natural habitat. They don’t waste
energy running around in the sun.”

Zoo hours are 9 am. to 5 pm.

Early visitors also are more likely to see the ani-
mals being themselves, instead of watching the
crowds, according to Steve Bircher, assistant curator
of carnivores.

“Study the antelopes, for instance,” Bircher said.
“There is a pecking order to be established, and it is
necessary for the top-ranking male or female to as-
sert its dominance. This involves some biting and
kicking. Baby antelopes learn the order by watching,
and they might undergo some kicks and bites.”

A young lion or tiger pouncing on its mother’s tail
is getting more than recreation.

“In the wild, this cat would have to chase and
capture its prey to survive,” Bircher said, “so with
this ‘game’ it is learning agility and coordination.”

Animals know when it’s meal time, and they show
it. “Sometimes a cat will start pacing because it’s
anxious, or even salivating,” Bircher said.

Hoessle urges visitors, especially if they live in or
near St. Louis, to concentrate on one section of the
Zoo at a time.

“Pick an area and watch a mother and baby, for
instance,” said the director. “Read the signs and stay
long enough to watch animal family life, especially in
early morning. Don’t try to rubbemeck the whole
place in one day.” U

(More photos on Pages 10, 12, I3)

 

  
 
 

   
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   

HEETAHS at the

StLouis Zoo fall into
two categories: mother—
raised and hand—raised.
Malhia, shown with. keeper
Stan Lee, had to be taken
from her mother because
Malhia had an infection and
the mother wouldn’t allour
her oﬁspring to be treated.
“We only try to breed tam
kinds of cats at the Zoo,
snow leopards and thee
tahs,” Lee said, “because
other types are still plentiful
in the wild.” Cheetahs are
shy and nervous and are
kept in an area as far away
as possible from other ani-
mals. Lee has been a Zoo
employee for seven years. He
and his wife, Cathy, have
three children. “They love
the Zoo, ” Lee said, “although
what they like most is the

train. ”

—

 

  




 

HEN I WAS 6 years old, I knew I Chicago, Cincinnati and Peoria, Ill, before com-
wanted to be a zookeeper,” Jim Alex- ing to St. Louis in 1966. Alexander is in charge
under said. “I never grew up.” Alexander was of the sea lions, directing them in a show at what
born in Munster, Ind, and worked at zoos in used to be the lion arena Winston, a 500-pound
male, frequently “hugs” his keeper, as shown in
the photo. “Winston is an easy—going animal,
but not the world’s greatest worker, ” Alexander
said. “It’s like pulling teeth to teach him a trick,
but if he goofs up during a show, he ‘spanks’
himself.” One time, for a change, Alexander left
Winston out of the show and let the more talent-
ed sea lions star. “Right away, ” said the keeper,
“I started getting questions: ‘Where ’3 the one
that spanks himself?’ ”

LGA, a Kamchatka bear,

and zookeeper Gary No-
ble are old friends, especially
when Noble is tossing fish to
Ilga every afternoon at 4. “Ilga
knows me, pretty. much like
your dog knows you, ” Noble
said. “She can see me coming
down the road or she can pick
me out of a crowd.” Ilga is 27,
elderly for a Kamchatka, but
seems to be in good health She
and her mate, Ivan, used to
have a litter of cubs every other
year. Ivan died two years ago.
“In January we’d lock Ilga in a
back cage, leave water but no
food, and tum out the lights,”
Noble recalled. “After a. couple
of weeks, she’d have her ba-
bies. ” People often ask if Ilga
can be petted: no. “She is usu—
ally gentle, but she is still a wild
animal, which means she is un-
predictable. A bear doesn’t get

tame just because it’s in. a zoo. ”

 

 

 

 

 




 

1'

 

draping a 7~foot Bur—
Nil-”$5" pvthon about yourself:
Flew ll around your shoal»
a’wzs- or asalsxt, but not around
your neck. “To a python, you
are like a tree, said Jeff El-
thug, demonstrating a rela—
tively safe way to hang
arozmo’ with a snake. “It’s
jam: mm to get a good
grasp, but it could hurt you
aeezidwmllly. Ettlil‘zg, who is
zmrlrz’ng toward a master’s
degree in bIothgfy at SIN-Ed—
armclsoille, supplied some in
fawmanon about the hognose
moi—co that posed with. fellow
keeper Norman Haskell on
{he cover. “The hognose is
non—poisonous‘ bat when
threatened it will ﬂatten its
head and 1‘2.st like a cobra, ”
Ell/mg said. “If that doesn’t
amrh, it will switch to Plan
b’, urha‘h is to play dead It
got-“s completely limp, with its
trmg’ue hanging out and no
.xzien of life. You can even
pie}; it up and it will seem
{Ig‘kvltmn Once you leave, it

smote oar-“02.32

\

NSTRUCTIONS for

 

 

 

 

 

“Elephants . . . try to get away with
things. You can’t let them.”
— Donn Gibson

 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
  

IEPHANTS are lilo

school/raids, said
Donn Gibson. “The? lm‘ lo
gel away with things“. if the:
can, and you (“an ’2' let them. “
Gibson, who has been at Z'ln
St. Louis Zoo for :2? years
after teaching high .s'chml
science for eight ;;»'ears
stood with 21~yearold (Com
lyn for a picture, but he: (2’2:
nied that Carob-n or an}.
other elepl’zant is; his [own
“If you get loo (llllll’l'liﬂll Z
one, it will tahe advantage is;
the situation, Gibson. (“2
plalned, “and it won't mind
you." Gibson started at the
Zoo as an assistant and be
came head trainer in 1970.
“Not even Donna la“ my fa»
oorlte,” Gibson said, “even
though I raised her on a bot—
tle from the time she was? 3
months old. She’d hear me
get here in the morning and
she ’d holler. Donna dram}.
[our gallons of skim mill; 1.:
day until we weaned her.
She 19 18 now. ”

 

  




 

 

 

The World '5 Fair
Flight Cage at the
St. Louis Zoo
attracted crowds
of visitors in
August 1919, just
asit does today.

 

 

 




m“ .1108 ANGELES TIME

- May

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. FOR THOSE OF YOU who have never had
the singular experience of a mountain

lion hunt, imagine this: First set a pack of
dogs on the tail of a very large house cat. (The
average mountain lion is, of course. bigger, say
75 to too pounds.) Have the dogs chase the car
around the neighborhood for several hours until.
thoroughly terriﬁed and exhausted. it climbs a
tree in desperation. 1 While the dogs surround ~

the tree, you go ﬁnd a riﬂe. A shotgun will do

if you're unsure of your marksmanshi
Take your time; the cat isn't going

anywhere. (In the wild, the

WiTH DISHEARTENING REGULARITY.
the Fish and Game Commission at-
tempts to impose a mountain lion hunting
season on a state whose population is clearly
opposed to such pointless destruction. Last
year. more than 100,000 Californians.
through letters. signatures on petitions. and
hearings. protested the'Commission's pro-
posal. while only 4,000 people applied liar
hunting permits; only 4,000 potential lion
hunters in a state of twenty-ﬁve million!

Again. why? There is absolutely no need. '

Any person who has sullered the loss of
livestock or a pet due to a mountain lion
attack - a rare event — may either get a per-
mit From the state to kill the offending lion.
or let the Department of Fish and Game do
the dirty work. i-ree.

That more mountain lions have been re-
cently sighted means only that there are

 

 

THE FOX [N i
THE HENHOUSE

Our state's wildlife is ofﬁcially "protecred"
by a live-member commission who set
policies to be carried out by the California
Department of Fish and Game. All five
comm issioners have been appomted by the
present administration and allfw are and
bums. Not one is a wildlife expert.

 

 

 

 

 

 

more of us humans out there than ever
before. not more lions. For example. more
than three times as many enthusiasts now
enjoy our shrinking wilderness than in the
19405.

The {act is that mountain lions are elusive
and solitary and shun humancontact when~

ever possible!

Ht: SlTUATION IS THE; We don’t know
how many mountain lions live in the
state. nor where they live. nor how they live.
nor the extent ofany damage. if it is measur-

1'“

GOVERNOR DEUKMEJIAN

State Capitol

Sacramento. CA 95814

Dear Governor:

Don't destroy a precious public resource. You can st

the senseless hunting of our mountain lions Please - don't let

the killing begin!

Name'

P' 55;:

 

 

 

FLOUTlNG THE LAW
just last December. the Fish and Game

Commision's mountain lion hunting plan
was found to be illegal by a San Francisco
Superior Court. even as public opinion
had found it to be abhorrent. The Court

i interval between treeing the lion and the kill can be as
much as a day and a half, and in some instances. the
mountain lion is shot in the paws in order to keep it in

the tree.)Then from point

lank range, you ﬁre away.

blowing the animal to bloody lint. ll Why, you

may ask. would anyone want to do this? The

meat isn't ed:

le. the fur is rough and

unfashionable and the damage the
bulletg‘and dogs do to the carcass

overwhelming public opinion and the Supe-
rior COurt's orders.

We are conscious of having presented only
our side Oi'this controversy. but we honestly
can't figure out the Other side. Why. we
wonder. do these few men want to set their

dogs on a beautiful and harmless wild ani-

usu lly puts it be end the taxi-

d :LEmlSE’S art. As for sport.
t late is more challenge in set-
ting a mousetrap.

 

ruled that until such time as the Depart-
ment of Fish and Game filed a thorough
and accurate environmental assessment on
the status of California's mountain lions.
unr could it liliedﬁr sport.

The ink was hardly thy on the Cam's
order when the Department and the Com-
mission were at it again. By hastily recy-
cling the same numbers. they now claim to
have answered the court's objections.

Hearings have just been held before the
Commission -— a kangaroo court — in
which the outcome was a foregone conclu-
sion. in spite oi'overwhelming opposition

On April 8. in Long Beach. the Commis-
sion swept aside all evidence and approved
a I988 hunt dentin! to the i987 proposal
the court had held invalid. Incredibly. ear.
lier on the same day. the Commission tiled
a lawsuit against us tn Sacramento. because
we had the audacity to question their eth-
ics and competence.

‘— .._

 

 

 

 

 

 

able. that they do. We only know that the
statewide population is hardly Ot’crabuth
dam. and that a hunting season is not the
answer to wildlife management —- as the De.
partment orFish and Game freely acknowl-
edges. Until all the data is gathered and
analyzed. the Commission should not even
propose a hunting season on our lions.

That is what the Superior Court ruled early
this year. but the Commission is behaving as
if it were above the law.

Certainly the wanion slaughter/orfun ol'this
magnificent animal whose population is un-
known and whose behavior is misunden
stood, is indefensible. Equally outrageous is
the Commission's arrogance in ignoring

FtSH AND GAME COMMISSION

t4t6 Ninth Street
Sacramento. CA 958t4

Dear Omnmtssioners:

lions for fun!

Name'

 

Addretc

{Wress‘

 

 

 

MOUNTAlN LlONS POSE
NO REAL THREAT

Despite what you may-have heard. these

are the facts:

[t] in all of California there has never
been a single reported human death caused
by the mountain lion.

{1]. Dogs kill and injure more livestock
than do lions. And iiyou do stiller the loss
ol'lirestock. or even a pet, a permit to kill
the offending lions may be obtained from
the state. Or. the state will come out and
kill the cat for you. Free.

 

MORE LIONS.
OR MORE PEOPLE

Pfuptmenls ul' lion hunting hint darkly
that more mountain lion sightings indicate
a dangewus upward population trend. The
facts prove otherwrse:

Since “Ho. we hau- lust liaur and one-hall.
im‘llam acres of wilderness to development.
During the same period there has been a
75 percent increase in outdoor recreation.
So there are three times as many people
out there doing the looking. While there
may be more sightings. there's certainly
not more wildlife.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mal in order to chase it up a tree and blow
it away?
For the life ol'us— and that of. the Califor-

nia mountain lion — we don't get it.

— MOUNTAIN LION
PRESERVA’I‘ION FOUNnxriON

 

 

 

 

WE'VE DONE lT BEFORE. LET'S DO lT AGAIN!

Average California citizens. and um private interests: have over the years been
pivotal in prorecting our mountain lions. In 196;. we played a key role in stopping
the slaughter of thousands of mountain lions for bounties. Then: in i97i. con-
cerned over the lion's dwindling numbers. the thislature and Governor Reagan
placed the ﬁrst ban on trophy huntin of mountain lions.

(We're proud to say that Calilornia'is t
in the_West to protect mOuntain lions from tro ‘ hunting.)
You helped us stop last year's hunt. We played3 i

and we won. Now in the back rooms in Sacramento.

first a only state

glistraight

 

 

they've taken our victory away. Please help usi‘stop
them! Use the coupons below. The ﬁrst two are
9.

for you to register your disap~
'ptoval. The coupon on the
right is for yrou to help us
continue e orts to
save this majestic

species for future
generations.

Thank you!

Rxmcmber

we can make

a difference!

 

 

For the second straight year. you are defying the public and now a
court order! \Ve do not want trophy hunters killing our mountain

 

 

 

MOUNTAIN LION PRB'ERVATION FOUNanN
909 12th Street. Suite iioE
I Sacramento. CA 958i4

Dear Friends:

| Here is my donation to he; save the mountain lions-f
$30

| D Yes. i would like to be added to your mailing list.

Name‘

Stu sum 0 S

 

 

 

City. 'l'nrs-

City. Zip'

 

'l‘hnl um arc I-H clidu‘tdsle

 

 




NEWSWEEK — May 30, 1988

 

 

SCIENCE

 

How the cat GotNine Lives

 

It owes them all to acrobatics and balance

 

rusilla, the platonic ideal of a calico

cat if ever there was one, was playing

on the balcony of her owner’s apart-
ment in Denver last year when she bound-
ed once too often and went over the side.
Five stories below, she slammed onto
concrete. After a little while, Drusilla
picked herself up and crawled over to the
comparative security of a car engine. There
she remained until her owner found her,
crying and nursing her wounds. After her
60-foot plunge, Drusilla had suffered only a
fractured limb and a loose tooth.

Rudyard Kipling never got around to in-
cluding “How the Cat Got Nine Lives” in
his “Just So Stories,” but two veterinari-
ans have now attempted an explanation.
In a recent article in the Journal of the
American Veterinary Medical Associa-
tion, Wayne 0. Whitney and Cheryl J.
Mehlhaff explain that felines have advan-
tages of anatomy and balance that enable
them to survive falls that would
kill most humans and other
animals.

Whitney and Mehlhaff ex-
amined 132 cats brought to The
Animal Medical Center in New
York City after suffering "high-
rise syndrome”: the felines free
fell out a window or off a balco-
n'y, usually onto concrete, two
to 32 stories below. Sixty-seven
percent required treatment,
generally for chest injuries,
fractures, ruptured bladders or
hemorrhages. Excluding cats
whose owners couldn’t afford a
several—hundred—dollar hospi-
tal bill, 90 percent of the treat-
ed cats lived. As might be ex-
pected, the farther a cat fell the
greater its chances of getting
hurt or dying. But remarkably,
that was true only up to a point,
literally: the point was seven
stories. Cats that fell farther
had a much greater chance of
escaping injury and death than
those tumbling from lower
ﬂoors. One that plunged 32 sto-
ries onto concrete suffered just
a chipped tooth and mild chest
injury. After 48 hours of obser—
vation, it went home from the
hospital.

Unlike cats, few humans sur-

 

 

”Cat B falls outvafaffoutth-y

" ﬂoor window. ' It maneu. - , -
vers in midair, orienting -
itself with paws facing
downward. Accelerating
throughout the plunge, it
never relaxes enough to
spread its limbs and may
well sustain more serious
injuries when it lands than
a cat that plunges from a
higher ﬂoor.

113 omssorvmnswswsax

ries onto a hard surface. The vets have
some pet'theories to explain this feline ad-
vantage. For one thing, cats reach a termi-
nal velocity of about 60 miles an hour after
ﬁve stories, when air resistance prevents
them from speeding up anymore. Humans,
with a lower ratio of body surface to mass,
reach a terminal Velocity of 120 mph, after
about 32 stories. The other big difference is
the great acrobatic skills of cats. They have
a unique ability to rotate in midair so they
land feet ﬁrst, on four paws. That dissipates
the force of impact more eﬂiciently than
landing on two feet, as most people do (ba-
bies tend to land head ﬁrst).

landing gear: The paradox is why falling
from the penthouse is less injurious than
falling from the lower ﬂoors. The vets spec-
ulate the reason involves how a cat deploys
its landing gear. When a cat is falling ever
faster, they suggest, it extends its four
limbs down, ready for a paws-ﬁrst impact

 

vive falls of more than six sto-

 

 

 

(chart). But when it stopsaccelerating, af-
ter 100 feet or so, it may relax and splay out

f its limbs like a ﬂying squirrel. This in-
; creases drag and spreads the landing im-
if pact over a greater area, decreasing the
f risk of injury and death. Writing in Nature
; magazine last month, physiologist Jared
3 Diamond of the University of California

Medical School suggests that cats evolved

3 this propitious technique in the millions of
, years their ancestors were leaping from
; trees during their arboreal existence.

Whitney advises cat owners to close or

screen their windows and keep unsuper-
vised pets off the balcony. Cats may indeed
have nine lives, but there’s no sense squan—
dering a one of them.

SHARON BEGLEY

 




 

 

MANSTERS will fill laboratories, worm expert on cross-

 

German scientists fertilized a hamster egg with
human sperm in a procedure that is almost sure to

“produce a half-human half-hamster baby!
That’s the word from outraged geneticist Wilhelm Bell,
who predicts that laboratories might soon be filled with the

tragic creatures he angrily
calls “mansters.” "

“It’s science and technology
gone wild,” the expert told re-
porters in West Berlin. “They
are not only playing God with
the lesser animals.

“They are playing God with
man.’

Thebizarre experiment is be-
ing conducted under the super-
vision of Dr. Henning Beier,
who insists that he is not trying
to produce a hybrid monster.

from professional decorum,
Dr. Bell flatly called his col-
league a liar.

“We fed the genetic possi-
bilities into a computer and
the projections are chilling,”
he-continued. “The creature

'.‘~\

 

{7 By HENRY WEBER j

is almost certain to have the
size and at least some of the in-
telligence of a human.

“But it will have a hamster’s
instincts and physical features,
most notably fur, claw-like
hands and feet, beady eyes,
whiskers and a snout. ,

”Such a monster could never
be released in the world at
large because there is no way to

predict how it would reSpond to

 

the ‘ environment,”

 

 

breeding, because humans are being combined with rodents!

he added.

“Most likely it would remain
caged, whiling away its life in
an exercise wheel.”

Just how the hamster-man
embryo is progressing remains
a closely guarded secret. Dr.
Bell said its chances of survival
“aren’t anywhere near 100 per.-
cent. But sometimes all science
needs is the slimmest of
chances to meet with success. _

“And if they succeed once,
there is nothing to stop them
from duplicating the experi-
ment,” he continued. “I can en-
vision a day when hundreds,
and maybe even thousands of
these creatures exist purely for
the pleasure of science.’

Waxy/a /W% M

1?;
Wifl‘v’t/L‘p mvﬁ/b/ M 3"MM’“ 1/ 9"

 




  

 

On 19 May l987. the United States Patent Ofﬁce gave a patent
to Chet Fleming of St. Louis. Missouri. for a “Device for Perfusing
an Animal Head." The “device" would allow the severed head of
a chimpanzee or monkey to be kept alive. In addition. “it might be
possible to use this invention on terminally ill persons.”

The “Summary of the invention" notes that:

This invention relates to a device. referred to herein
as a “cabinet" which will provide physical and biochemi-
cal sttpportfor an animal 's head which has been “discoro '
porated” or “discorped” ( i .e. severed from its body).
This device can be used to supply a discorped head with
oxygenated blood and nutrients. by means of tubes con-
nected to arteries which pass thrOugh the neck . . . tfdeo
sired. the spine may be left attached to the discorped head
. . . the severed head preferably should retain all the sen-
sory organs. and the vocal cords if desired . . . the dis~
corped head might experience a period of consciousness
after it had been severed from the body.

A "Detailed Description of the invention” follows. from which
extracu follow.

The head of a laboratory animal such as a chimpang
:ee or rhesus monkey may be severed from the body and
coupled to the cabinet described herein. using means
brawn to experimental surgeons. After this invention has
been thoroughly tested on lab animals. it might also be
possible to use this invention an terminally ill persons.
subject to various government approvals and other legal

requirements. . .

Various control devices may be used to add any de-
sired nutrient or Other substance to the blood. to keep the -
blood values within desired (normally physiological

  
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
   
    
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
    
  
 
  
  

  

 

 

, HE PARlN

 

 

  

 

i

 

 

56

 

 

 

 

    
 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

.’

’u . .a ‘
I _ - c. - 5. '. ~ . . ' I. ‘
".39 cannot‘ be a. Christian; ; ~.:~.~-.: ,

l ' -. l o. 9 . . .. .5:pr . if“.

cl willingly‘ .inllict torluce'1'7;’-‘tl‘.'7:_ -‘.=-' *
. any living thing." . t I I“.

 

 

58 so .
OXYGEN ° WAIST:

' Eatcnted cabinet to keep severed chimp he

4 ’ . c e -.
n' 7 ' ._ . " ,
... . 5. . 9 v .~-_ .

GRUESOB‘ZE PATENT

limits} or to conduct any particular type ofexperimen-
tatian / Emphasis added]. . .

The cabinet is equipped with means for mounting the
head in a position such that the veins and arteries which
emerge from the head can be connected to the venous and
arterial cannulae. This can be accotttplis/ted by inserting
one or more surgical pins into tlte vertebrae in the neck.
or by immobilizing the neck with an inﬂatable or padded
collar . . . if desired. the cabinet may be equipped to
allow the head to be inclined. for ease ofucces‘s during
Surgery [Emphasis added] .

If desired. the surgical cuts may be made in such a
way that the larynx (which contains the vocal cords) re-
mains attached to the head. The severed end of the

trachea (wind pipe) may be sutured to a tube carrying .

slightly compressed. humidified air. so that the primate
or human head may use its vocal cords if it is conscious.
The compressor may-.be controlled by a switch maunted
below the chin of the head so that the animal or human
may turn the compressor on or oﬂ' by opening its

mouth. '. .

The device of this invention can be manttfa‘crured and
sold. and it may be used for various purposes such as
analysis of drugs uhich are metabolized by the liver tnto

undesired compounds or which cannot cross the blood-
brain barrier.

References are made to “Other Publications" which include an
article entitled ”Brain." by monkey head tranSplanter Robert
White. published in 198l . a book entitled “Heads" by David Os-‘
born. published in l985. and a book entitled "The Tomorrow File”

by Lawrence Sanders. published in l975.

 

r,
PROCESS

 

ECUlPMEh‘T

 

 

 

   
 

 

 

   

     
    

 

, o ‘0'. 3.}. ‘ ‘ o
. 5 a ‘ ' I _ 7:.:..{ .: ~’.Oi"‘.. . I
- -. ‘.. a I... .g.‘ (0. ‘..'~..‘-.o' "
1' - - . ' ‘ .'-‘-"--. ’"ueu- .'
_ . ..-- . . I c .0; . l ‘
. I . ' " .0. . f. .- ‘F.» ”g 91..
d u . . - , . . . - a: . I31“:- .0 .3
a 3 ye- '. '. o t '3'" '. “a"... 1’.
. ~ . -' ‘.-'- . . ;, .-':e '3' 1"".Cv‘v‘, . 'es s
- v . . ' 0" -u' ’ v ~- 1': l ' . ..-‘ He “' f tert’MtI-x
.. ‘ o , - o . ' -
n .‘ ,o . .‘ ‘ o ' 'q." .‘ th'nt ' cl .‘ " o’."".‘ 1‘ r ftp“ .'H
. _ 0‘._ ' ; ”.91. Z... 4".... e '. .V'. . :d":-.. o l -*¢#’¥ % p.
. . . , o- 0.: .. Jug ‘ '

"’"FIGJZW '

4.4-

..
-‘A‘_ I

‘yh

4AA

AMA)

   

WW.“ As.

  
    

 

 

 

  




devotion to her master, a mongrel pooch
named Bear saved toddler Zeke Perkins
from a watery grave -- when she leaped
into the icy Waters of a pond and pulled the
boy to safety! : . . ‘ - ~
The 4-year-old tyke was only seconds away
5 from death after he and his tWo sisters broke
through untested ice on a pond near their home in

New Haven, Vt
But heroic Bear __ a New. I By. DICK oouovm

foundland and «collie mix '—
plunged into the bonenumb- him across the ice to safety.

3‘ al' h‘?A;—"-‘>‘—~i..l~.- . . .

 

 

1*-

ing water, grabbed her drown-
ing master’ s coat collar in her
teeth and pulled him onto
stronger ice.

Knowing Zeke was out of ‘

danger, the Bear went back to
where 8'year-old Martha and
7-year-old Sarah were still

BEAR“ it our here, says the Perkins kids, Martha, Sarah and little Zeke. The mixed breed peach

«pulled Zeke eat a! the pend and then went back to help the "(a girl; after they ﬁll in.

Then the amazing superdog struggling and used her body
turned. amund and backed up to steady them as they pulled
so ghat'ntﬂe Zeke“ could grab themselves out of the icy

“/5‘ Irmvkrw «we 'r '

. water. .

 

. about it, but if the Bear hadn’t
been there, I really think Zeke
would have drowned,” thank-

ful mom Missy Perkins said.

"He said “Mom I learned ' She said the children had ‘ " ’ ' ‘ ' ' - - . '~ ' ' .
never to go anywhere without been told they could skate on their father Dale. But they ap— with ice that hadn't been test- stant Companion and she tag-5
the Bear’" Mrs. Perkins ex- the ice of a small pond that parently became bored and ed. ged along 1' the 3+year.old
plained :- . ' had been tested earlier by went to skate on a larger pond “The Bear is Zeke’ s cen- mother of five said. “The kids
And what did the Bear get. . ---- zmaw _--_-m-_.. sat down on the ice and when
as her reward for her lifesav- WEEKLY WORLD NEW “" . the Bear sat down with them,
mg hemics? Februaryg 1938 s the cambined weight was too
“Just love ,, Mrs. Perkins much and they broke through.
mm with a laugh, ; B “I' m justththankful that the

ear was ere.”
‘ She said Zeke later admit-
ted that his harrowing brush

with death taught him a very
. 1m Ol’lﬂhl loccnn

 

 

 

nounmllllllllllll"ll”l“lllllllllllllllllllluum-

 

 




OKLrAr (”1,11%

Dogs perform ltke heroes to warm
1nJured woman 1n overnlght 1d

AssdcidtedPress 1 its .
wAuRIKA Okla. --— When Mary

Gladys Baker fell and broke herf
hip. she {Ound out that a dog can in-. .,

deed be a person s best friend.

" ‘ Scout and Little Bit. two Lam:

dor retrievers helped keep Mrs
Baker warm as the 84 year-old
' woman waited 15 hours on her patio
in ISO-degree. windy weather for
someone to rescue her after she fell
Monday night
“I didn't know whether id be
- froStéd to death or 1101‘ Mrs. Baker
said Thursday in an interview in
her hospital room in Wichita Fah.lls
Texas. “I was so cold. " ,3
Scout may have been the bigger
hero or the two dogs. The 7- year-old
canin'e shared his blankets as the
temperature dropped to 37 degrees.
“He brought me one of his

quilts. " Mrs Baker said "And he lay 1

°A640uo Isaxpunoq

pu' ‘uotzoaap put Azvaot 'uo133011' puv can; 40; Aztnudea

3'046 I qztn UJOQ '1' I600

‘punoai acct noA a;

8

'3! 9° 1'40" 0H1 1°“ $.1'H1 aha
"JOAO note); JO Azdwa 1! put} a;
1noq Jason ath3 0) H140} PU? nave 3306 1nq OP 0% OUFN1OU

°3$11 SWBVUBSIH A31081 U 303 BNUH

momma: on saw—soc anm 01.
uoaauoa an ‘553N113N01 'LUOJHODSIO 'LNBNBNIJNOD aaaaas

'wapaaa§ put d1qsuo1uedwon ueunq-—-693A11 qzaon .111 syq
anew gnu; Ibutu; on) Axuo sq; 1o panyadap I; bop pauxtqa JO

SIHL DC 1.NOG 35V31d

pauuad ' ‘suogzypuoa zsaq an; Japun uoa3
tun! on: u: buyttoaq JO p10: on; u; Goya-nyqs :Outppaq JO} an;

- Outdaaln
0 an t ngn sasnouoop pinto. uxva JO sauna: u;
t:3;‘: 3: ugqu ggnp put aux-J 13 uaqn pnu Aq papUHOJJnI IIpJoA

Nunf put IpJOAnavq u; dn pauuad Jo uyuqa t ,0 pun aq; 3' sJ'aA

:uads aavq oqn xau ant] leap aas 111M noA

Atuo'

ouop uaaq

.lgugugJa ! uaAa 'butaq unmnq v a; coup aJan a: 93 zuau

-ustund ueunqu; pun tanaa paJaptsuo: aq pxnon qu a;

down by the by my back "

" "‘He really surprised me."

said.
Ironically. Mrs Baker had gone

outside to take a dry blanket to

Scout when she twisted her ankle

and fell on the concrete slab

she

. Little Bit who usually stays in-
side displayed Some hernias.- too .
"She laid dOWn her cheek to my

cheek "

.7 With the animals around her -
and the quilt Scout provided cover-

ing her body. Mrs. Baker called for

help and waited in her Snowy back "

4r

yard.
” “I screamed almost all night
long." she said. “I didn’t want to go

to sleep at all " ~
"I got so cold I couldn’t feel my
fingers touching my feet. 1 had fear.
great {ear " ‘ ’
“I prayed and prayed I may not

 

u"'3u

‘uytqa v 50 pun no;

°lntaap buyuavn I ‘.bop
q .pJ!bIJ qayqn 43.130.

'IUO ou zanq luq

'SWVNINIHD lSHOH 3.A131303 N3A3

Boa plebpeg BILL

IAzJadosd so it

p can, uuaq auraq sun 3-1;: Aruo at"
'33138313 GNU 33v: WVDIGBH

‘AVQ 11 3111311 3311111. 'mosuoa “1111451114 11311151 3w ‘ '313

.ugggobJo; Alabatx put pazaoxblu
‘SLStava ‘saaaaoanu

at .111 syn puads a; paauazuas son a“
thn6. u “out: stqz u;

I.1vun

1
I
l
o
I
I
I
1

be such a 300d person but he am

2 swered my prayers. ” she said.

There were no neighbors close

by. and Mrs. Baker had to wait until
her- daughter arrived to check on
her Tuesday.

Hattie Dale Andersen of Waurika
found her mother about 11:30 a 111.
when she went to the house to de-
liver her mother s‘mail and newspa-
per,

, “Mother just said "Thank God.
thank God you came.‘ " Mrs. Ander-
son recalled. " —

Mrs. Anderson said her mother
complained about missing the tele.
vised Oklahoma Louisiana State bas-
ketball game. '

“l told her it didn’ t matter: Okla-
homa lost. "

3 As for the dogs. Mrs. Baker said.
i‘FDOn‘t tell me dogs cant think I
know better. "

i
a

 

i
i

3W?

 

:13

v
i
.

whiz?

‘l

 

r .
ﬂxkﬁc

.'

 

 




NEW ENGLAND MONTHLY - June 1988

 

IN THE
COUNTRY

l ' , ,

(.1, . . . ,
.> . 1’

2.1, . . 7', ,

. ‘ ,' .' ﬂ
\ .. y .- . .

v ‘- o
I

CFTIS

LIFE A3
:A DOG

It’s eleven pm. Do you
. know where your animal is?

'LOVE DOGS — their goofy affability,

 

their touching trust, their sly sense of
. humor. Over the years I’ve had seven,
each one utterly individual and vastly
entertaining. One was terriﬁed of the
high-speed run we had to make in
winter to get our car up a steep hill and
would hunker down in the backseat
with her paws over her eyes until we’d
made it to the top. Another devoted con-
siderable time to devising elaborate
games designed to scare the hell out of
our cats — what we call dog jokes. A
’ third was a master athlete whose main
pleasure in life consisted of fabulous
leaps in pursuit of a well-thrown Frisbee.
.. But let’s face it: They don’t call them
dogs for nothing. No matter how close
a relationship you have with your dog,
there’s an unbridgeable chasm between
P human and doggy interests. Any self-
E respecting dog, for example, is a con-
. nOISseur of carrion, a devotee of the
unspeakable. A dog will eat almost any-
' thing that once lived; if it’s inedible, he’ll
. roll in it. The object of this olfactory
; enhancement of the face and ruﬂ’ seems
:‘ to be toicreate envy in other dogs — the
E old where'd—you-get—that—great-stuﬁ' ploy. A
’ dog’s idea of a gift is to try to rub such
slime on you, so you too can be the ob-
E ject of canine cynosure My disgust at the
. sight and smell of this benison never fails
to bafﬂe my Labrador retriever, to hurt
her feelings as I shriek and try to brush
it off my clothes. When this happens, I
get the quintessential doggy look, usual-
ly tendered over one shoulder as she .

=3
3
i
3‘
i

 

 

JEROME
prietorship. At all times of the year, you

see dogs trotting purposefully down the
i road, intent on social calls or complex 3

back, catching some rays, pretending he’s

 

a.

walks away, that says, Hey, it’s your loss . . . '
Country dogs have more freedom .
than city dogs. They like to visit with '

. each other, to monitor changes in their
g environment, to mark and defend their ‘
' own territories. Drive around the coun-

try after a snowfall and you’ll notice that
every newly plowed driveway is artfully
marked with a yellow blaze of pro-

errands. In my neighborhood there’s a
beagle who likes to sleep in the road in
summer. You’ll come tooling around a
corner and there he’ll be, lying on his

at Cannes. He does‘eventually waddle
off the asphalt, but .with great bad

 

humor.
Because they enjoy relative freedom,
country dogs are at higher risk than their

. e a mmwn 2%? #18“? TEE-Pars;- .. $ng s ":13: s : 1.».- 4 -

city cousins. Each spring we ready the

pliers for the ﬁrst (and usually last) en-

counter with a porcupine, and we can

count on at least one tomato-juice bath
. for our perpetually optimistic skunk in- i.”

spectors. There’s also one run to the vet’s

back then, beautiful hunters bred to pur-
sue wild boar and bear. We’d let them out

‘ (always at about 11 RM. on a Sunday
night, don’t ask me why; maybe it’s at
another dog joke) for stitching up a
barbed-wire wound or other minor f,
?' calamity incurred as our trusty grunts g
secure the perimeter for the night. g
We’re lucky, though. Our place is big
enough and we’Ve done enough training ’
that our dogs stay on our property. It
.5 wasn’t always so. In the sixties, when my
husband and I got our ﬁrst dogs, we
5 . thought, as did most of our friends, that
. they should be, like, totally free. Wow,
E beautiful. Fer shure. We had 'Plotthounds 7'

in the morning and about ten hours later
they’d reappear, footsore and exhausted,
having covered God—knows-how-many 1

miles in their pursuit of quarry. Even—
tually, thanks to our stupidity, two of
them disappeared — probably shot by
game wardens, and rightly so. But while
they survived, our dogs were, you know,
free.

WE HAVE a big problem with people

moving to the country,” says Tom
Ricardi, who as deputy chief of the
Division of Law Enforcement of the
Massachusetts Department of Fisheries

and Wildlife has to deal with the prob-

 

 

 

" lem of dogs and deer. “City people tell
- me, ‘I’m not going to conﬁne my dog,’

but usually if you can show them what
happens, when they see a small fawn
that’s been torn up so bad we have to put
it down, they change their minds.” Un-
fortunately, most dog-deer encounters
take place deep in the woods, where the
victims may never be found.

Now forty—eight, Ricardi has spent
twenty-six years trying to protect wild—
life. He hates to have to kill deer and the
occasional dog, but he feels the odds are
heavily weighted against the deer. In
summer, he says, they’re trying to raise
and protect their fawns; in fall they’re
being hunted; in winter they’re often
starving; and in spring -— particularly in
February, March, and April, as the preg—
nant does are moving out of their winter
yards -— they’re pursued by groups of
dogs. “It isn’t't'he sheer numbers of the

kill,” Ricardi points out. “What’s awful
‘ is the way it’s done. I’ve seen a deer in the

middle of the woods, sitting in a pool of

blood but alive, and the dogs are still

there chewing on its hindquarters. The

 

 

 

dogs will even leave the deer and come
. right up to you with their tails wagging.”
These attacks are worst in spring, but
they occur year-round. And even if the
deer manages to escape, he adds, the
shock and exhaustion of the chase often
end up killing it. “People always say,
‘Oh, my dog would never do that,’ the

same way they say it about their kids.
But they do.”
“There are no irresponsible dogs,”

agrees Sally Aldrich, “only irresponsible

owners.” For nine years Aldrich has been
the dog officer for the towns of South
Deerﬁeld and Sunderland, in western

' Massachusetts. A feisty forty-ﬁve-year-
,_ old, she. works days as a bookkeeper at
, the Umversity of Massachusetts, but

she’s on call around the clock for dog
problems. There are dogs that have been
hit by cars, of course, and litters of pup-
ples abandoned so young they have no
means of survival. She has a large fami-
ly and a network of friends with whom
she’s managed to place many strays, but
there’s only so much she can do. Some,
inevitably, have to be put down.
Aldrich can tell you what your dog
does when it’s gooﬁng off: It gets into
trouble. She picks up an average of a
hundred dogs a year, for crimes as
various as running livestock, knocking

5 kids off bicycles, biting passersby, get-

ting into garbage, destroying newly
planted gardens, harassing cats. “Any
dog has the potential to run deer, horses, '
cows,” she says. “You get two or more
dogs, and it starts out as a game. but it

 




 

gets out of hand.” One dog in her town
chewed up the feet of some caged rabbits
in a backyard; two of them died. A new-
born calf in a ﬁeld was savaged and had
to be destroyed. And one night two full-
grown pigs were killed.

“People hate to conﬁne dogs, but if
they’re loose, you have to be out there
with them so you know where they are.
You don’t have to tie them up; you can
make a yard for them. If you let your dog
run at large, you risk losing it and never
getting it back. Not long ago I pulled a
young German shepherd out of the
river. It had probably tried to cross the
ice in late spring and drowned. It’s just
so sad.”

ﬁnally come around. We’ve built a

spacious pen and a Hilton of a dog—
house for our animals. Because as much
as the world needs protection from my
dogs, my dogs need protection from
their own predilections. If you really love
your pet, you won’t turn it loose to con-
front things it’s not equipped to handle.
I learned this the hard way, with two

IT TOOK ME twenty years, but I’ve

dogs lost and two others killed by cars. L i‘
Some freedom. ~ ,

ATLANTA JOURNAL a
CONSTITUTION
May 29, 1988

bisabled gain
when paired
with dolphins

Water pets make splash
as teaching assistants

The Orlando Sentinel

, What a difference the right
teacher makes.

. ‘ Disabled youngsters learn much
faster from a dolphin-human team
than they do from a plain old per-
son, a Miami psychologist has
found.

Midway through a six-month
study at the Dolphin Research C9D";
ter on Grassy Key, Fla., David Nath-
anson has observed significant
learning gains among mentally and
physically disabled children.

. “We now have enough data to
indicate success is almost beyond
our wildest dreams,” Nathanson
said in a telephone interview frpm

 

Miami, where he has a private prac-

tice and teaches at Florida Interna-
‘tiOnal University.

; The project may be the first to
demonstrate that animals can teach,
said Nathanson, who presented his
data last week at a meeting in Or-
lando of the International Associa-
tiOn for Aquatic Animal Medicine.

‘ Previous studies have shown
that animals can help people emo-
tionally through companionship or,
as with seeing-eye dogs, by perform-
ing sensory tasks. But Nathanson
said that as far as he knows, no one
else has proved that animals im-
prove human learning.

According to the Delta Society,
a national organization devoted to
promoting and studying human-ani-
mal interaction, previous studies
have shown that dogs can help re-
tarded children learn. But Nathan-
son’s work probably is a first for
dolphins, said spokeswoman Tina
Ellenbogen in Benton, Wash.

In the study, which is paid for

by Florida International and the ;

non-profit research center, Nathan-
son works with six boys from the
Florida Keys who have mental and
physical disabilities and are slow to
learn and speak.

The boys, ages 2 to 10, visit the
research center weekly for one
hour, which is divided between
learning from a teacher in a class-
room and learning from a dolphin-
human team at poolside. Four bot-
tlenose dolphins participate.

; The children are shown line
drawings of objects and assigned,
for learning purposes, a series of
pictures they cannot identify. Nath-
anson observes how well they learn
or remember the names of the ob-
jects.

; In the first experiment, the
teacher names an object and the
child who repeats or remembers it
is rewarded with praise. In the sec-
ond experiment, a picture board is

' thrown into a pool and retrieved by
a dolphin before the teacher identi- -

fies it. If the child responds correct-
ly, he is allowed to feed, pet or
swim with the dolphin.

“With every child, teaching hu-
man language using dolphins was
clearly superior to use of standard
teaching procedures,” Nathanson
said in his presentation. “In some
cases a child vocalized or said a
word for the first time in his life
only with dolphins as part of the
teaching.” ‘

In 100 sets of trials, a 10-year-
old who barely speaks gave 38 cor-
rect responses with a dolphin and
only seven without. One 2-year-old

'with Down’s syndrome gave 19 cor-

rect responses with a dolphin and
only two without.

 

The reason the dolphins are so

ghelpful, Nathanson suggested, is
'«that they relax the youngsters and
. increase their attention spans. The

slowness of learning among retard-
ed children is a result of their short
attention spans, he said.

Dolphins don’t improve the
learning of autistic children, who
have a chemical disorder and can’t

: process information until after the

hormonal changes of puberty, Nath-

; anson said.

Although many animals can

hold a child’s attention, he said,

dolphins are ideal teachers because

they are beautiful to watch and

much. and they move gracefully.

."i‘ir-é water also provides a buoyant,

soothing atmosphere.

In ﬁnding the potential for dol-
phins to help people. Nathanson
said. “We have just scratched the
surface."

 




‘ HEPPNER, OREGON GAZETTE — March 9. 1988
TWO - Heppner Gazette-Times, Heppner, Oregon Wednesday, March 9, 1988

Shotguns replace combines on
‘ farm near

*eppner

The blast of shotguns and sounds
of excited hunters, has replaced the
roar of combine engines on one fami
near Heppner, as brothers Clint and
Philip Carlson recently opened their
bird hunting preserve for business.
Called TREO Corp., for Tours and
Recreation of Eastern Oregon. the
brothers are now hosting groups for
pheasant, chukar and quail hunting
on the 640-acre preserve located bet—
ween Ruggs and Hardman.
On one particular weekend the day
3 began with a limo picking up several
f hunters at the Lexington Airport.
From there the group was whisked
downtown to be served a bacon and
egg breakfast, before it was on to the
farm where the real action began.
Hunters became familiar with the
! procedure by shooting ﬁrst at several
varieties of clay pigeons. Then the
pheasant were released over the top
of the hill above the hunters, and

from individual stations the hunters
shot. In all, 120 birds were releas-
ed. and hunters bagged 59 of them.
“This is a European style shoot.”
explained Philip Carlson. “Where
hunters stand at,individual stations
to shoot at the birds.”
At the ﬁnish of the European
I. shoot, hunters practiced on more
N g I. : m: g g . clay pigeons, and then moved down
. 1.... .- a canyon to M more than '00
.,... . _ ._ . . . ,. chukars that had been released there.
Let the Shoating begin . Then it was lunch time, and the
‘ , hunting party was driven to the four-
bedroom remodeled farm house
where after picture taking, they were
served a delicious steak dinner and
refreshments. While the group ate
the pheasant were cleaned and
packaged and ready to take home.
IAfter dinner there was more clan
pigeon shooting, to round out an.
enjoyable day of hunting.

.v.-

v»

 




‘-'-«.%”'

Betty Carlson readies steak dinner for hunters

- JeffﬂMaben with two of the 59 birds bagged that day.

 




Boise .lournal

 

NEW YORK TIMES - May 24, 1988 ‘

1 S urVivaI Duty in ‘Raptor Capital of the WorId ’

By KEITH SCHNEIDER

Special to The New York Times '

.. ,2; BOISE, Idaho,
* a a, may 18 -- Day-old
.3 peregrine falcon
{ chicks, hardly act-

s» gym?
if

‘1‘ ing or eating like
birds, gulp down chunks of fresh quail
offered at the end of a tweezer.

Ravenous, 21 ~day-old Mauritius ke-
strels, an endangered falcon from an
island in the Indian Ocean, chirp re-
lentlessly, pausing only long enough
to swallow or sleep.

On the summit of a grass-cloaked
butte just south of Idaho’s capital, the
sounds of insistent hunger, squeaky
as a diner’s twirling stool, have re-
turned to the World Center for Birds
of Prey.

Since late April, when the hatching
season began, breeders of rare eagles
and falcons have been as busy as new
mothers.

By July more than 200 peregrine
chicks and several from other endan-
gered species will be hatched and .
nursed to young adulthood, the first
vital steps in a captive breeding pro-
gram that is considered one of the
most successful in the field of wildlife
restoration.

“It seems like a lot of work now,”
said Calvin Sandfort, a 33-year-old
breeder who has reared more than
600 peregrine falcons since 1984. “But
when the season ends I feel like I’ve
added something special to the
world.”

0 o c

That such a program is now based
in Idaho, where sheep and cattle.
ranchers of old poisoned eagles and
shot hawks and falcons, shows how
far the West and the nation have
come in reconSidering the value of
animals once despised as predators
or pests.

It is fair, in fact, to say that Idaho
has gone a little falcon-crazy. Boise
has begun to call itself “the raptor
capital of the world.” “Raptor” is the

h'_

I I. '
I‘M-I (-5.!

'Peregrine falcon chicks, 3 to 4 days old, begging for food at the center.

 

term used to refer to flesh-eating
birds.

And today was the start of the third
Idaho Birds of Prey Festival, a five-
day event that includes a 10-kilome-
ter “Wings to Wings” race, a wildlife
film festival, and a concert, “Through
the Eyes of an Eagle.”

The festival owes its existence to
two outposts of safety for raptors.
The first is a breathtaking, 482,000-
acre preserve established by the In-
terior Department in 1980 along the
Snake River, south of Boise. The area
supports the highest density of
hawks, falcons and eagles in the
world.

The second is the World Center for
Birds of Prey, established in 1984 by
the Peregrine Fund, a group that
began releasing falcons from its
headquarters at Cornell University in
Ithaca, N.Y., in 1974 and is largely re—

sponsible for rebuilding populations
of the nearly extinct peregrine in the
East.

The Peregrine Fund’s directors, in-
cluding its founder, Tom J. Cade, a

Cornell ornithologist, sought to dupli- .

cate the feat in the West, where pere-
grines have been destroyed by the
same visible and invisible scars of in-
dustrialization, principally agricul-
tural pesticides.
O O O

The World Center’s restoration
program, paid for with just over $1
million in donations each year, is a
combination of high-technology biol-
ogy, modern poultry farming and an-
cient falconry. From his brooder
laboratory, Mr. Sandfort monitors 50
pairs of adult peregrines housed in
chambers that are equipped with
television cameras and sensitive mi-
crophones.

Among the more delicate and dan-
gerous aspects of Mr. Sandfort’s
work is removing eggs from pere-
grine nests and banding chicks that
are returned to adults after they are a
7 to 10 days old. This week Mr. Sand-
fort bore a nasty slash on his right
eyelid, from a peregrine’s talon.

When he’s not warding off the fear-
less falcons, Mr. Sandford is gen-
erally busy with less treacherous
tools that have increased the produc-
tion of peregrines and dramatically
lowered mortality. Females that do
not cooperate with their mates are
artificially inseminated. Advanced
nutrition studies, including chemical
analysis of the quail, rabbit, and mice
fed to the birds, have improved rap-
tor meals and made chicks sturdier.
Standard incubators have been rede-
signed to warm fragile eggs.

Fewer than two of every 100 chicks
that hatch in his brood laboratory die,
said Mr. Sandfort. At the current rate ‘
of production, about 160 chicks a
year, the peregrine population in the
West could be restored by the end of
the century, he said.

The center’s director, Bill Burn-
ham, 40, is hopeful the same repro-
ductive techniques will prove to be
just as successful with other rare
birds of prey. Teams of experts have
been dispatched to Central America,
Africa and Asia to study raptors
whose habitats are disappearing at a
rate that threatens their survival.

Pairs of Mauritius kestrels, giant
harpy eagles from South America
and endangered Teita falcons from
southern Africa, are now housed at
the center where breeders are trying
to coax restless adults to have babies.

 

 




"‘ - c...

   

SECOND

Bill Burnham, director of the World Center for Birds of Prey,

 
 

FRONT

1.1 mew“ «a a .

PAGE

The New York T1mes/Ter1 Dav1s

with Helen, a peregrine falcon with impaired vision used for public educatiOn.

l
I")

USA TODAY - THURSDAY, MAY 26, 1988 - 3A

  
 

Rock singer’s leopard kills daughter,

By Tammie Smith
and Jerry McCaskill
USA TODAY

The 2-year-old daughter of a
Nashville rock star who suc-
cessfully lobbied to keep big
cats at his home was killed
Wednesday by his leopard.

The 7-year-old spotted leop-
ard named Tabu escaped with

four other cats, mauling Nikka
Savage, who died of head inju-
ries and loss of blood.

Rock singer Joe Savage had
lobbied state ofﬁcials for! the
law that allowed him to keep at
least four big cats.

“If an animal is kept in a
very rural situation, he has
enough room and no other peo-
ple around, what harm can it

do?” Savage asked in a 1986
TV interview.

Leopards and snakes were
part of Savage’s ﬂamboyant
rock ’n’ roll act

In Las Vegas at the time of
the attack, Savage was return-
ing home Wednesday night.

The cat that attacked Nikka
died after being caught and
tranquilized. The others were

caught without incident.

Savage had told the state his
knowledge of the cats “is more
than adequate to maintain
them in a manner essential to
their good health and welfare.”

He said he kept tranquilizer
guns and nets, and was willing
to kill the animals, if neces-
sary, if they escaped.

The law was passed over ob-

 

jections of the Tennessee Wild-
life Resource Agency, which
granted Savage a permit to
keep the animals, providing it
could inspect cages.

Ownership of exotic animals
is regulated on the basis of the
degree of danger they pose.

“Some require stricter cage
requirements,” regional man-
ager Larry McGinn said.

 




H-2

Saturday, May 14, 1988

 
 

Elbe iBallaﬁ Warning Erin)?

Willie B. takes to the jungle

Zoo Atlanta’s famous gorilla steps outdoors for first time in 27 years-

Associated Press.\

ATLANTA — Willie B. found it’s
a jungle out there.

Zoo Atlanta’s famous gorilla saw
something Friday that he hasn’t
seen since he was captured in Af-
rica 27 years ago: green grass be-
neath his feet and open sky above
his head.

As reporters and photographers
watched from behind trees and
across a protective moat, the 30-
year-old lowland gorilla stepped
hesitantly into _ his new outdoor
quarters, a $4.5 million simulated
rain forest where he will live near
13 other gorillas and a host of other
apes.

Skeptical of those watching him,
he spent almost an hour stepping
back and forth from his enclosed
shelter before he seemed secure
enough to run atop his hill,
scamper for food and begin ripping
down tree limbs.

“I think he has responded well.
He came through. He seems to be
enjoying his environment,” said a
beaming Terry Maple, director of

Zoo Atlanta.

Last month, Willie B. was moved

 

from his tile-walled, steel-barred
cage — his home since he arrived at
the zoo in 1961 — into the new in-
door quarters he will use for sleep
and shelter.

After five weeks to grow accus-
tomed to the enclosure, with his
keeper of 14 years often sleeping
nearby to keep him company, he
was allowed to roam free. Zoo offi-
cials don’t know if he can remem-
ber being outdoors.

For now, Willie will live in an
area of his own, adjacent to three
“families” of gorillas on loan from
Emory University’s Yerkes Primate
Research Center. They’re all sepa.
rated to prevent fights. Zoo officials
hope that within a year Willie can
be introduced to another gorilla —
probably a female, with whom they
hope he’ll breed.

The new exhibit, according to
Zoo Atlanta officials, is the most ad-
vanced gorilla habitat at any zoo.
Named the Ford African Rain For-
est and built with $1 million from
the auto manufacturing company,
it’s the latest stage in a $26 million
renovation at the 99-year-old zoo.

' The exhibit will open to the pub-

thunelL

Just four years ago, the US.
Humane Society named the zoo one
of the nation’s worst. The US. De-
partment of Agriculture slapped
sanctions on the zoo for poor
record-keeping on animal care. The
deaths of star animals made na-
tional headlines, and political tur-
moil gripped the city-owned attrac-
tion.

In 1985, Maple, at Georgia Tech
University animal behavior special-
ist who helped turn around the New
Orleans zoo, was named director,
and operations were handed to a
non-profit agency.

As for Willie B., Friday was not
his first time in the limelight. In
1981 an Atlanta TV station handed
him a suitcase to recreate a popular
luggage commercial that showed an
ape bashing — but not breaking —
the product. ~ ‘

Willie ripped the leather cover
off the suitcase, ripped the two
sides apart from the hinges, filled

one half with water and drank from ,

it.

 

ATLANTA JOURNAL G CONSTITUTION - May 30,

Letters:

1988

City is building a zoo we can all be proud of

9A

 
   

  

l

l

I ,

4“ a... ........ ....... “-5.

 

 

 

 

l
l

i
I

 

I am proud of the new Atlanta Zoo.
As a resident of Grant Park and a mem-
ber of Friends of Zoo Atlanta, I. have
' been witnessing the transformationiof
what Will be one of our city’s premier
attractions. lvisit the zoo regularly and
can see firsthand the results of a tre-
mendous amount of money and efforts
of those who dared to dream of such
radical transformation. '

A letter published on May 12 was
critical of the progress. Where has the
writer been? Did she notice a flock of
ﬂamingos roaming in their habitat, not
behind a cage of bars or glass? Dld she
notice free-roaming peacocks, barking
deer, storks and emus not behind bars,
but a low fence? Does she remember
Willie B. behind bars from her youth

and did she not see a' lush tropical rain

forest under construction where he can
roam with others of his species and be
protected from poachers and the curl-
ous? Is she a member of Friends of Zoo
Atlanta, letting her money help rather
than letting her words criticize?
Lasting progress takes time and
construction, unfortunately, causes a
mess. I for one am happy and proud to

see the progress of not a facelift, but a

longlasting transformation. .

I anxiously await the Opening of
both new primate habitats this summer
and those already under construction
for next summer and the future. I am
proud of the New Atlanta Zoo.

' WILLIAM F. JOHNEN

Atlanta

 

  
   




 

 
 

 

————4—— by Vivian Price

enya. Australia.
New Zealand.

"This could
be the most
exciting
vacation you have ever taken,” the
brochure says. And, from the tour
descriptions, it could well be the truth.

These international tours (plus two
domestic outings) are specifically for
animal lovers and are sponsored by
Friends of Zoo Atlanta.

The l3-day Kenya safari (July IS-
27). begins at Aberdare National
Park, where you’ll stay at The Ark.
one of Kenya's famous tree lodges.
There a glass-enclosed viewing room
looks out over a waterhole. Elephant.
rhino, cape buffalo. waterbuck.
leopard and forest hog are among the
animals that inhabit this locality.

You will travel to the Northern
Frontier District, the Mount Kenya
Region. the Rift Valley Region, The
Masai Mara and Nairobi to see such
unusual game animals and birds as the
reticulated giraffe, Greevy's zebra.
tiny dik-diks. graceful, long-necked
' gerenuk, ostrich, leopard, ﬂamingo.
Grant’s gazelle. wildebeest and

hippos.

 

The cost of the Kenya trip is
$3.I49 per person.

The Springtime in Australia jaunt
(I8 days) begins September 3. and
costs $3,899 per person. An Optional
ﬁve-day extension to New Zealand is
available for $260. Sydney.
Melbourne, Adelaide, The Ghan, Alice
Springs, Ayers Rock, Darwin and
Cairns are your destinations.

ln Sydney. you’ll cruise the Sydney
harbor and visit the Sydney Opera
House, in addition to touring the
32.2 I 6-acre Ku-ring-gai Chase
National Park. The park offers shelter
to possums, koalas, swamp wallabies.
spiny anteaters and many birds.

A sheep-shearing demonstration is
on the agenda in Melbourne, along
with an excursion to Fitzroy Gardens,
Captain Cook’s cottage and Phillip
Island, home of seals, koalas, mutton
birds and the largest colony of fairy
penguins in existence.

After a trip to Adelain and the
Cleland Wildlife Reserve to observe
the emus, ride the train — the Ghan
-- through the Outback.

Other desinations include the
Kakadu National Park, I 228,900
acres recently placed on the World

Heritage List, the Outer Great Barrier
Reef for snorkeling for viewing from a
glass-bottom boat, and the Kuranda
Rain Forest and the crater Lake of
Barrine.

Domestic tours being sponsored by
FOZA include trips to Cumberland
Island (September 9- l 2; $270 per
person) and Little St. Simon’s Island
(October 7- IO; 5475).

5/25/88

There is only one catch to these
great tour programs and prices. You

DEKALB NEWS/SUN

Tour Kenya, Australia With Friends Of Zoo ,

have to be a member of Friends of Zoo

Atlanta.

Membership categories range in
cost from $20 to S | .000 per year.
Benefits include free admission to Zoo
Atlanta, as well as to 80 other zoos
across the United States. Members
also are invited to special events, to

.wmumwnnw- mew -

3,... .w .' .........

 
   
 

   

M53..- ; ‘ kg. 11" S:

Jolly Students “Adopt Zoo Atlanta Bearj

The students at Jolly Elementar
parents of Ron, the Kodiak Bea

TIME OUT

sneak previews of new exhibits and '
behind-the-scenes zoo tours. Directors
(5 | .000 contributors) have breakfast
with Zoo director Terry Maple twice a .
year.

For membership information or
details about the tours phone 624-
l 2 3 5.

 

y School recently became the adoptive
r, at Zoo Atlanta. The Student Council

sponsored the project to raise the $350 needed to beco ’
‘ me the bear 8
parents for one year. Each time 25 cents was contributed towards the

adoption, the donor’s name was
vmt Zoo Atlanta. Sharon John

placed in a drawing for free passes to
son, a Jolly teacher, won the passes.

Pictured above are David Joyner (center), Student Council president,

and Jeff Wallace (right), Student
check .for adoption to Tamara L
for Friends of Zoo Atlanta.

Council vice-president, presenting the
.ehman, membership services manager,
During their visit to the zoo, the students 5

were introduced to their bear. In addition to the free passes, the schools

also received a certiﬁcate pro
picture of Ron.

claiming'them adoptive parents and a»

to S".
A: i.

o ":

 

PAGE 27 E};-




TAMPA TRIBUNE - May 23, 1988

Cats are a habit with nun
at Pasco County convent

By CAROL JEFFARES
Tribune Staff Writer

ST. LEO —- It’s perhaps curious
enough to see a nun’s black habit
blowing in the breeze as Sister Juli-
"ana Pitts whizzes by on her golf
cart. But couple that with a black-
and-white cat — marked as if it,
too, is wearing a habit — riding
alongside the Benedictine sister.

That’s the picture those passing
Holy Name Priory often see as Sis-
ter Pitts and her feline Molly tour
the grounds of the Benedictine con-
vent in the small town of St. Leo in
eastern Pasco County.

If it’s not Molly riding with Sis-
ter Pitts, it’s apt to be Beau or Tin-
ker or Peeper or any of 20 stray
cats the sister has taken in, housed,
fed and loved.

Sister Pitts, 67, won’t say just
how many cats she does keep at the
priory. She doesn’t even know for
sure.

But each one is named after a
special characteristic Or just some-

thing Sister Pitts thinks is appropri-
ate. And each gets a big portion of
Sister Pitts’ abundance of love.

“This is Cookie. She was this
big,” Sister Pitts said, measuring off
with her fingers a couple of inches
“I nursed her with a bottle.”

A meow or two will get Cookie a
pat on the head, scratch of the nose,
and a “Yes, Cookie, I love ya” from
Sister Pitts as she makes her mom-
ing rounds.

Some of the cats are housed in
what Sister Pitts calls her condo-
miniums — wooden crates stacked
on their sides inside large wire cag-
es, complete with music from radio
station WUSF (89.7 FM). Others
stay outside, but come running
when they hear the sound of Sister
Pitts’ golf cart.

Sister Pitts finds most of the
strays in the parking lot between
the priory and nearby dormitory for
Saint Leo College. Plenty also came
from people dumping them off in
the priory’s orange grdve.

Sister Pitts makes sure all of her

, charges are well fed and healthy.

And she takes each to the nearby
veterinarian in San Antonio — usu-
ally hitching a ride rather than tak-
ing the golf cart. The vet fixes any
health problems, gives the cats the

necessary shots to keep them.

healthy, and eliminates the chance
the animals can produce other
strays.

But even with a discount from
the vet, caring for all these strays-
turned-pets is costly, Sister Pitts
said. The exact amount, she doesn’t
know. If she’s running short of cash
for the cats, she’ll just scurry
around to find more bottles and
cans.

Collecting aluminum cans and
returnable bottles subsidizes Sister
Pitts’ project. As head of housekeep-

ing and maintenance for the priory,
Sister Pitts finds many discarded
items that can be recycled.

But Sister Pitts also has rum-
maged through her share of trash
bins in an effort to retrievealumi-

‘num cans.

And then there are a few folks
who save their cans for her or will
bring by cat food and litter.

“I can’t tell you how long I’ve
been doing this,” Sister Pitts said. “I
never wrote anything down. Now I
wish I would have.”

Taking in stray animals really
dates back to when Sister Pitts was
a child growing up in Key West,
where she lived with her grandpar-
ents.

“They never knew what I would
bring home,” she said.

There were white rats, chickens,
ducks, dogs, cats — anything that
needed help and some that just
needed love.

Sister Pitts came to Holy Name
Priory in 1940 —- without her me-
nagerie.

And it would be many years be-
fore Sister Pitts sneaked her first
cat into the priory in a paper sack.

That was 1971 and she had been
given a kitten, Solomon, as a gift. It
was three months before anyone
found out.

Now, Sister Pitts said the other
sisters view her keeping cats as
“just the facts of life.”

Sister Pitts took in her first two
strays —.- Pal and Pumpkin — about
1978.

Then she found another, Skitter,
and another and another and anoth-
er .

“God gave us life by breathing
life into us.

“And if he breathed life into
these animals, then they deserve
the same respect that we do,” Sister
Pitts said.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

. . , T 'b h t a h b PAM HIGGINS
Sister J: - ma Putts plays wuth Molly, one of her oldest cats. " “"3 P ° °9' P V

 
 




