 

JANUARY, 1936.

HUMANE
LIFE

(QUARTERLY)

 




 

CONTENTS.

Retrospect
Children

> The Exemption of Dogs from Vivisection

Contrasts
Buy Fabric Furs
Correspondence

Notes

11
12
13
16

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIIFE

JANUARY, 1936.

 

Retrospect.

N the four quarterly issues of this magazine for 1935, its
objects and the principles advocated are clearly stated. For
the information of new readers a short résumé will be of

service.

In the interests of a greater humaneness the attitude of man
towards animals was described ; and the deplorable indifference
of the general public to the sufferings inﬂicted in our unwarrantable
exploitation of them for food, dress and medicine.

Slaughtering, hunting, skinning alive, Vivisection without
anaesthetics and other atrocities were shown to be indefensible,
besides being pernicious instead of useful to mankind. The man
is cruel and contemptible who sets a pack of dogs to tear to
pieces one exhausted and defenceless animal. He and those who
eat the animals and use their fur for dress contribute to their own
degradation in morals and loss of health.

 

 

 

 




 

 

2 HUMANE LIFE

All creatures have their place in Nature and the right to life
and liberty just as we ourselves have.

There is waste of power and resources in the misuse of the
land for pasture, in the need for the employés to live in unhealthy
surroundings, in the preventible sickness. The mischief caused
by meat, ﬁsh, beef-tea, inoculations and medicines based on
vivisection experiments; the wholesale shooting of rooks and
larks, the massacres of seals, the sufferings of rabbits caught in
steel traps, the miseries inﬂicted on our faithful old worn-out
horses and on the pit ponies—these and other evils were detailed
and shown to be cruel and useless.

The need to be “ thorough ” in dealing with such evils was
insisted on, as in the extraordinary exemption of sheep and lambs
from the beneﬁt of humane slaughter and the insufﬁcient inspection
of vivisection. Sanitation is far more efﬁcient than the serum
therapy of the vivisectors. l

Substitutes for leather, animal furs and other articles got by
exploiting our fellow creatures were described and new methods
suggested. Greed of gain, medimval ideas, fashion and custom
stand in the way.

It was shown that Nature though i‘ red in tooth and claw ” is
not nearly so cruel as she appears to be—certainly not so cruel
as man.

The character and language of dumb animals were set forth.
The vegetarian animals compare well in strength and respectability
with the carnivora—e.g., the mighty gorilla, the elephant,
rhinoceros, horse and ox. Many admirable traits and abilities
ShOW that in their special spheres all animals lead civilized lives,
though different in kind from the civilization of man. Several
cases were given of the forethought and altruistic nature of dogs,

A4

 




 

,HUMANE LIFE .3

horses and other animals we are most in touch with ; and good
grounds for believing that in their wild state similar ﬁne qualities
are in play.

Opinions of some of the best authorities were quoted. Why
should they be ignored and the cruel and selﬁsh be allowed to
lay down the law for us and force us to an inferior mode of life ?
There is too much apathy and too little thought. ‘

oano oBoao

In the A7zz'1nals’ Friend of June, 1935, it is remarked :—

“ The Prince of Wales has truly said that ‘There is in the

heart of practically every man, woman and child in our nation

to-day a real desire to be a friend towards animals. Kindly deeds
react upon our own character and make us better citizens.’ ’

True probably, but we must except the Vivisector, the hunter,
the trapper, the butcher, the meat eater and wearers of animal
furs and a few other people.

%'% gr

In the Vegetarian Messenger for August, 1935, it is noted re
“ humane killing " : ” It would appear that, in the case of the pig,
to the butcher the quality of the ﬂesh is the main factor ; and, if
it is a question of saleable ﬂesh and a painful death or unsaleable
ﬂesh and a painless death. the former must be the choice so long
as the demand for ﬂesh food continues.”

NB. The consumer is most to blame ; and it is not only in
the case of the pigs that the ﬂesh must not be spoilt in appearance
by the humane killing process. '

 




 

    

 

HUMANE LIFE

Children.

. ORE attention is now being given to the need to train

M children in humane principles. Efforts are being made to

alter the prevailing custom of encourging them to play

with toy weapons and to amuse them with nursery rhymes and
tales of killing.

A useful “ Pass on” leaﬂet is being circulated by the National
Council for Animal Welfare, entitled “ Early Education in
Cruelty,” by Geraldine Lyster. It says :—

HFrom the very cradle the child is nourished in barbaric
ideas, which have to be eradicated before humane teaching can
get a foothold,” and that mothers should instil “ those thoughts
which will pave the way for the joy that comes of kinship with all
that lives and the growth of qualities that make for good
citizenship rather than with the savagery of past ages.”

. The cutting off the tails of the mice in the jingle of “ Three
blind mice,” the rhyme of the sparrow with a bow and arrow, the
killing and worrying which are part of the story of the “ House
that Jack built,” awaken in the infant mind wrong ideas which
persist to some extent as the child grows older.

Playing with toy soldiers, toy pistols, catapults and other
instruments for inﬂicting pain and death is worse than is generally
recognised. Miss Edith Carrington gives a telling case of this.
She writes: HA man in the street was selling toy whips. The
ﬁrst was bought by a pleasant looking young mother for her little

 
    

 

 




HUMANE LIFE 5

 

son. He immediately struck her with it. The second whip was

sold to a little boy walking with his nurse. He made use of it by

ﬂogging some poor terriﬁed sheep driven by a butcher boy. A
1 third little purchaser at once began to beat a little lost dog ; and
f a fourth attacked a cat.”

An instance is given of a child who, after singing “ Ding dong
dell, Pussy in a well,” threw a kitten into a well and then, in
trying to get it out next day, fell in herself and was drowned.

Leaﬂets received from Boston, California, Toronto and

Ontario show that vigorous efforts are being made in the United

States and Canada to deal with the trouble. In one leaﬂet of the

American Humane Education Society it is pointed out that early

impressions are strongest and that after the nursery rhymes comes

the school teaching of the history of battles and cruel deeds of

the mythological gods and heroes. Then come the motion

; pictures depicting sensational matters and morbid magazine stories
which may be fruitful of evil inﬂuence.

Another leaﬂet, from Toronto, tells of work done through
the Toronto Humane Society’s magazine, T he Humane Pleader,
and that, as a result of the Society’s efforts, time, each week, is

i devoted in many public schools to humane education. Sermons
; are preached in “ Be Kind to Animals” week, and some of these
are broadcast.

Another leaﬂet says “ Disarm the children. A broom, a rake,
a shovel, a spade, a hammer and nails, a kite, bat and ball, a dog,
a horse, a boat, a swim, a race, a sleep under the open sky, are
better means of training to ﬁne citizenship than the toy pistol, a
riﬂe or a sword.”

 

Mr. E. Clifford Pratt, of Ontario, writes suggesting that
children be encouraged to keep a book of their own experiences,

 

 




 

 

6 HUMANE LIFE

with headings such as ‘Friendship of animals and birds,’ ‘ Animals
and birds saved from danger,’ ‘Intelligence of animals and birds,’
“Trapping and hunting.’ He also reports the pernicious teaChing
of scholars in Sunday Schools that the discoveries of Louis
Pasteur are wonderful and beneﬁcial. ‘

A well-known London schoolmaster encouraged his pupils to
cultivate the humane spirit. (Why not all schoolmasters P) He
writes :——“ Are we A not, somewhat hypocritical to be always
exhorting children to be kind to animals when many members of
the aristocracy ﬁnd their highest pleasure in killing for sport ? ”

In August of this year in Public Opinion it was noted that the
annual report of the National Society for the Protection of
Children reveals that the number of cases of ill treatment was the
highest since the War.

In January a protest was made by Mr. Frank Wyatt, Secretary
of the London Vegetarian Society, against a parody broadcast by
the BBC. The parody ran :— '

“ Mary had a little lamb,
The butcher killed it dead ;
So Mary takes the lamb to school
Between two bits of bread.”

Besides this the BBC. had stated, in a pamphlet, that
“ there is a mistaken idea that meat is not needed by the young ;
but this is not so as, on the contrary, it is most necessary to
growth.” This statement Mr. Wyatt characterized as showing
‘ simple ignorance.’

A lady of Ipswich writes : “ The Animals’ Society here had a
‘Pets’ Week’ for children. A large hall was hired and children
brought their pets (from hedgehog to donkey). The public came
in free and prizes were given for the best answers by owners of

 

 

 

 




HUMANE' LIFE ‘7

pets as to their care and treatment. The Mayor and Mayoress
were there ; and the latter distributed the prizes.” This sort of
effort might, with ease, be adopted by animal lovers all over the
country.

 

Dr. I. C. Jackson, of Danbury, U.S.A., who cured drunkards
‘ by keeping them without ﬂesh—food and tobacco, said that a meat
i . diet predisposes children to the craving for intoxicants.

Rousseau, in his “ Confessions” wrote : “ One of the proofs
that the taste of ﬂesh is not natural to man is the indifference
which children exhibit for that sort of meat and the preference
they all give to such food as milk,» porridge, pastry, fruit, etc. It
is of the last importance not to denaturalize them of the primitive
taste and not to render them carnivorous; 'if not for health
reasons, at least for the sake of their character.”

How often we may hear a mother say to her child “ Now
then, Bobby, eat up your meat or you shall not have any pudding,”
or some such remarks tending to enforce the change of the child’s
natural taste.

A critic in reviewing a book on fox-hunting writes :—u Fox-
hunters are no less numerous than of old, though they have, to a
great extent, changed their sex ; and he sees a great future from
the children’s pony clubs, which are producing a new generation
of fox-hunters of the right sort.”

The days are past when children were employed at heavy
work in factories, or forced up thickly sooted chimneys, or taken

 

by their drunken parents into public houses to stay there for hours
amid demoralizing scenes. These evils were fought and banished
by the efforts of reformers, and those we still have to deal with
can be abolished if we steadily pursue the ideals of the many ’
humanitarian societies now at work.

 

 




 

 

 

 

8 ' HUMANE LIFE

The Exemption of Dogs from
Vivisection

' (COPYRIGHT)

By EDMUND B. d’AUVERGNE.
Author of “Human Livestock,” and “N apoleon the Third,” etc.

OMPARISONS, we "have all heard, are odious. Discrim-
C ination appears equally so when we are called on to select
victims for the executioner or the torturer. Yet if called
on to make a choice, the right-minded will make a sacrifice of
consistency in order to limit the intensity of suffering or to
acknowledge the obligations of gratitude. Called on by the
dictator of Italy to say what he could do to mitigate the horrors
of vivisection, short of abolishing it altogether, one of the most
eminent of living humanitari'ans and the most uncompromising
opponent of vivisection in any shape or form, admitted not long
since on a public platform that he felt constrained to make certain
recommendations—some of which, I believe, have been carried
out. In simple language, we must do what we can.

It is certainly not out of want of sympathy with any and
every other kind of living creature that the present writer proposes
here to advance some arguments in favour of the exemption of one
particular kind from the abominations of the laboratory. The A
enemies of animals, it must not be forgotten, are as various as they
are numerous, and are swayed by vastly different considerations.

 

 




HUMANE LIFE 9

A cold-hearted but devout Spaniard might be persuaded to give up
bull-ﬁghting by an appeal to religion. A “sportsman” might be
convinced that otter-hUnting or rabbit-trapping was unsportsman-
like. Boys refrain from hitting girls because they are taught that
it is unmanly. ‘And so on. Now in the vivisector, let us admit
that we are faced with the most formidable of our opponents.
He is a man of the keenest intelligence, unswayed by the emotions,

 

in the vast majority of cases a sceptic in religious matters,
pursuing a disinterested aim, and assailable only by appeals to his
reason.

It is not easy to arouse in such a man any pity for the
guinea-pig or the rabbit. In arguments with medical men, I
generally begin by asking what is the aim of experiments on living
animals. If they answer, the advancement of knowledge, I have
nothing more to say. That is not in itself a moral purpose and
moral arguments would be of no avail. I have heard such men
frankly confeSs that they would vivisect human beings if the law
permitted it. Argument with such would be as useless as argument
with the thief who demands your money or your life. But happily,
the great majority of medical men stop short of so cynical a
profession. They defend vivisection on the ground that it is
directed to the relief of human suffering. They invoke a moral
sanction.

Since scientiﬁc men deny the essential superiority of man,
a doctrine tenaciously adhered to by theologians, and admit that
man is himself an animal, it may be wondered at why they should
consider it right to sacrifice one animal for the beneﬁt of another.
The only reply can be that they are themselves men and that it is
right and natural for them to prefer the interests of their own kind.
Admitting this, we may next ask in Socratic fashion, if love for
our own kind does not involve gratitude to the benefactors of
our kind. The answer as it appears to me, must inevitably be yes.

 




 

 

 

10 ' HUMANE LIFE

Then why do you, we ask, select for the subject of your
horrible experiments, that creature who is distinguished above all
others by his affection for mankind? The dog loves man. He is
the only creature that does. Whether it is the law of his being,
we know not ; but mingled with the bones of the earliest of men,
are found the bones of dogs. Kipling speaks of the dog as the
ﬁrst friend. He was also the ﬁrst ally. Without the dog, it is
inconceivable to me how man could have attained to the mastery
of the world. Our forefathers gathered round their ﬁres which
they had lit to scare the more savage beasts. They slept, and
then they owed their lives and the preservation of the human
species to the ceaseless vigilance of the wolf-like dog who prowled
around the limits of their camp. Without the dog how could
man have tracked and fought the most dangerous enemies of the
wild? Ask your scientiﬁc friend whether he does not think it
probable that man might now be roosting in the branches of the
forest or lurking in the cave had not the gallant generous dog
proffered him his alliance.

Surely, even scientist and theologian will admit that there is a
contractual morality. The dog not only loves man but has been
taught to regard man as his friend and protector. The hare and
the fox remain man’s enemies—let us concede so much to the
“sportsman” ; but is not the scientiﬁc experimenter conscious of
something like treachery when he seizes the dog who greets him
as a friend and binds him to the table of torture? Years ago, I
Visited a medical school in America. As I entered, an attendant
led in a little dog who fawned and gambolled and barked with
delight on ﬁnding himself among the medical students ...... l I
spat on the ﬂoor and went away, loathing my human semblance.

If our physicians and surgeons deny the claims of gratitude,
so powerfully invoked for the dog, let us ask why from time to
time they complain of the layman’s ingratitude towards them. If

 

 

 




 

 

HUMANE LIFE 11

they pursue their profession solely with a View to the satisfaction
of their curiosity, manifestly we owe them no debt. But if they
say that we owe them gratitude because they have done us good
and saved our lives, let us ask them why they torture the dog,
without whose co-operation man might have remained the weakest
of the monkey tribe. .

oanooEDOCa’o

Contrasts.

“ Look here, on this picture and on this.”
- —~Shakespeare’s “Hamlet.”

, OMPARE the life of the cattle in the ﬁelds with their
C terrifying experiences between that and the slaughter.
They have, in most cases, known the coming of dawn,

the brightness of the day, Sunset, sound sleep and the companion-
ship of their fellows. Suddenly they are driven to a goods siding
and loaded up, packed closely, in the cattle trucks; they are
frightened at the rush of passing trains and shrieks of whistles,
and when sudden darkness comes when they go into tunnels and

 

sudden light when the train emerges a strong contrast to the
pleasing gradual dawn and sunset they have hitherto known.
Then comes the driving through the trafﬁc of the streets and
arrival at the market and slaughter houses—enough to make some

of them mad and to poison their flesh.

Compare the happy life of a partridge or pheasant with its
misery when hopelessly wounded by the sportsman and the crying
of the young ones left to die of hunger in the nest

 

 

 




 

 

12 HUMANE LIFE

Buy Fabric Furs.

HE News Sheet of the Enﬁeld Branch of the World’s

League against Vivisection, reports in September, 1935 :—

“ One who has lived in a fur trading post in North Canada

writes: ‘We who have heard the forest echo with the ghastly

cries of creatures sacriﬁced on the altar of fashion have some idea

of the hell through which these animals pass before death
releases them.’

The remedy—FABRIC FURS.

Will you not buy and encourage the fashion for fabric furs,
harmless and beautiful, resolving never to blend your pleasure or
your pride with sorrow of the meanest thing that lives P”

And the American Humane Education Society of Boston has

issued a leaﬂet in which it is remarked :—

“ Wearers of furs make excuses. They say they are not to
blame because they did not kill the animals. They refuse to know
that the buyer, however remote from the trap in the snow, is the
real cause of the killing.

They say the animal is already dead, so they might as well
wear it because it cannot be brought back to life. They refuse to
know that the one fur sold must be replaced by another. Buying
a fur sentences another animal to die in a trap.

They say ‘I did not buy this—it was given to me.’ But
wearing a gift fur helps keep the fashion going, and encourages
other people to buy and wear other furs.

The final buyer and the wearer are responsible for all the
traps and trappers, and all the long agonies.”

 

 




- _....,.-,.._.._..,... . . ..... “U..-” -,_ __ , v .- u_ "a.“

HUMANE LIFE 13

Correspondence.

ON return from a holiday in Norfolk, H.G.W. writes :—“I
believe country people pay little attention to such things
(the cruelties). They seem to have been brought up to
take it for granted that animals don’t feel or that it does not
matter if they do.”
as >33 3%

Miss Dorothy Arbuthnot writes :—H It is a hard struggle to
get people away from ﬂesh eating. The usual answer ‘Well I we
really eat very little meat, we are nearly vegetarians,’ is a big
stumbling block. I personally feel more hopeful when they
answer that they enjoy meat and believe that God gave us the

l animals for food.”
1 a: as an:

O. T. Miller writes :—H Vegetarianism stands on moral
foundations (and religious as well). It is here that its strength is
to be found because the moral argument is unanswemble. Against

_ this the epithet ‘crank ’ is like a pea shot at an armoured battle-
i‘ ship. By all means, put forward the health point of View
sometimes because, unfortunately, there are some people who are
interested in nothing else (poor souls). But the real foundation of
the movement is a love for truth and goodness and a genuine love

for animals.’ ’
3* 1* It

MNV. writes :—“ My husband and I have just become
vegetarians. The chief thought that prompted us was the
suffering caused to so many innocent animals for food which we
do nOt really need. In passing the public slaughter place one

 

 

 

 




 

 

14 HUMANE' LIFE

thinks of the effect a place like that must have on the men who
work for us there.”
3S 33* 3?

Col. W. I. Polyblank writes :—” One is obliged to realize that
progress in such a work of revolutionary thought and education
must of necessity be slow in such an age Of universal blunders,
perverted ideas and selﬁshness. The sowing of. seed by the
distribution of literature and by an occasional word here and
there does bear fruit and encourages those who see and think
along the right lines to continue their good work in the hope of
doing some real and lasting service to humanity in general and to
the animal world.”

’5 ‘ 3F 3%

A Vicar writes :—“Certainly, the more I practise vegetarianism
"the more I like it ; andI tend to become gradually more strict.
The obligation of membership of the Vegetarian Society must
place one in an awkward situation at times, if carried out strictly.
I mean having to inquire if, cg, lard has been used even in the
making of cakes, etc. I am doubtful if this strictness is worth
while. It would make things specially difﬁcult for clergy even at
parish teas—in addition to the abstention from meat itself; and
the social difﬁculties often involve these. I was somewhat
distressed to ﬁnd even cheese is not vegetarian. I mean the
rennet is derived from the stomachs of calves.”

# >19 9;?

E.B. writes :———H Kindness to animals is growing. In the
London parks now all the birds are exceedingly” tame. If any one
appears with a paper bag, down come the birds and ﬂy into one’s
hand for crumbs. It is sad the way the human attitude to animals
is missing on farms. They are just (so much ‘per dressed carcase
weight.’ If you go near any of the poor things they get up and
run away, thinking you havecome to drive them somewhere.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE , 15

So many people say they do not want to hear of the cruelties
as they cannot bear it. This is terrible selﬁshness. It upsets us
all to hear of cruelties, but we must; for unless one does one
cannot use one’s inﬂuence to try and abolish them.”

=)€ SS 3?

The late Mr. Charles Forward shortly before his death, wrote
to the Editor of this magazine :——“I took up the A. V. questions—
Vivisection and Vaccination—which are being vigorously pushed
by vested interests and foisted upon an ignorant public. Finding
no convenient handbook. with up-to-date facts, I spent seven
months in writing The Golden Calf. It is I think unanswerable
and we have sent a large number of copies to Free Libraries and
similar institutions. Like you, I think the judicious distribution of
suitable literature is an excellent method of propaganda.

I am now working as chairman of Miss Ford’s society which
is doing splendid work on a very limited income; and also as
chairman of the Nature Cure Clinic which latter has opened a ﬁne
place at 132, Ebury Street. Now that the Battersea Hospital has
gone over to the enemy this is the only institute that bars treatment
by toxins, sera and animal extracts, and the use of ﬂesh food.”

ogoezlo eBOCEO

A distinguished physician, Sir Chas. Bell, told his brother:
“ I should be writing a third paper on the “ Nerves,” but I cannot
proceed without making some experiments which are so unpleasant
to make that I defer them. You may think me silly; but I cannot
perfectly convince myself that I am authorised, in nature or
religion, to do these cruelties . . . and yet what are my experiments
in comparison withthose which are daily done ? ”

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

16 HUMANE LIFE

Notes.

The subject for the Symposium for V the April quarterly
number is “The ground for belief that animals do or cannot
reason.” .

3K 3K 3K

Read the article “ Beauty and the Beast ” by Thomas Sullivan

in the Vegetarian Messenger for August, 1935 ; and that on “ Fish ”

by Henry]. Baylis.
3K 3K 3K

This number of the Humane Life magazine bears with it no
wishes to its readers for a “ Merry Christmas,” but only a hearty
wish for a Happy New Year.

As told in a leaﬂet published by the World League against
Vivisection :

From hundreds of churches arise songs of praise,
From hundreds of slaughter-houses moans of anguish.

How can humane people have a Merry Christmas while this
goes on ?
3K 3% 3K

Subscriptions for 1936 now due.

oaoaoozaoao

The Animals’ Help Society founded by Miss Ethel and Miss
Mildred Allport at 281, Goldhawk Road, W.12, to help any
animal in any need, has three small motor ambulances ready to
leave on errands of mercy at a few minutes’ notice.

 

 

 




 

 

TV

 

 

 

The following periodical publications
are recommended :—

” Cruel Sports,”

“ The Vegetarian Messenger,”

“ The Vegetarian News,”

“ 'l he Abolitionist,”

“ The Herald of the New World,”
“ The Animals’ Friend,”

“ The Animals’ Champion,”

“ Progress To-Day.”

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE

Single copy , 7d.l
Four (quarterly) copies per year 2/-l

 

Apjbly to THE EDITOR,
“ST. MALO,” CASSEL AVENUE,
BOURNEMOUTH, WEST.

 

Printed by H. Welsford, North Devon Printing Works, Ilfracombe.

 

 




 




