A? _, p, c , , . ‘. w 1 .,
\iingjdzgé;z //QL¢d/o Lidlcllg_£adg \avcxgwg (”A
\ I . ..... u.

,u

#9“

THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL WELFARE
1346 Connecticut Avenue N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20036

"IS SCIENCE NEEDLESSLY CRUEL TO ANIMALS?"

SUBJECT OF TELEVISION DEBATE

Cleveland Amory, author and social historian, a director of The
Humane Society of the U.S. and an Honorary Vice President of The NCSAW, and
Helen Jones, Executive Director of The NCSAW, will debate "1s Science Need—
lessly Cruel to Animals?” with Dr. Bernard Wagner and Dr. L. R. Christensen
on The Open Mind which will be telecast in numerous cities in the next two

months.
will be the moderator.

Following is the schedule:

New York Sunday, March 14
(includes Connecticut and New Jersey)
Portland, Ore. Thursday, March 18
Durham, N.H. Thursday March 18
Schenectady Sunday, March 21
Boston Sunday, March 21
Savannah Monday, March 22
Sacramento Tuesday, March 23
San Francisco Friday, March 26
Washington Thursday, March 25
Philadelphia Tuesday, March 30
Tallahassee Tuesday, March 30
Pittsburgh Friday, April 2
Tempe, Ariz. Thursday, April 1
St. Louis Monday, April 5
Gainesville Tuesday, April 6
Buffalo Wednesday, April 7
Hartford Friday, April 9
Rafa Chicago Friday, April 16
'=-- Tampa Monday, April 19
Jr" Miami Monday, April 26
”" Dallas Tuesday, May 11

The program will also be heard on radio.

department of your local newspaper.

WNBC

KOAP
WENH
WMHT
WGBH
WVAN
KVIE
KQED
WETA
WHYY
WFSU
WQED
KAET
KETC
WUFT
WNED
WEDH
WTTW
WEDU
WTHS
KERA

Prof. Eric Goldman, professor of history at Princeton University,

2 pm

9:30 pm
10 pm
6 pm
6 pm

?

10 pm
9 pm

9 pm

10 pm
9

8:30 pm

10 pm

8 pm

?

?

8 or 8:30 pm
10:30 pm

?

?

?

To doublecheck the tele—
vision and radio schedules, consult the listings in your local newspaper or
call the local affiliate of NBC, your local educational channel or the radio—TV

After you have seen or heard the program please write or wire The
Open Mind, NBC TV, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y., to eXpress your ap—
preciation for the program. Audience reactions are extremely important and if
The Open Mind receives all the favorable comment it deserves for inviting Mr.
Amory and Miss Jones to appear on the program to discuss the suffering of lab»
oratory animals, it is possible that they will be invited to appear again.

oOc

 

 




Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho 83201
August 9, 1965

Dear Mrs. Bemelmans and Mrs. Stevens:

I hasten to acknowledge your letter of July 27, telling the story of

Pepper; also the important news from Washington, July 26, 1965; also

of your new address, indicating you have moved to Washington, D. C.,

where, no doubt, the saving of time, being right there in Washington,
will facilitate your attending conferences and the legislature.

I have already written to Len Jordan, Senator for Idaho, who tells
me that H.R. 9743 has been re-referred from the House Interstate
and Foreign Commerce Committee to the House Agriculture Committee.
He states that he is advised that similar action is also expected
for H. R. 9750, but that no hearings have been scheduled by the
Agriculture Committee, "but you may he sure that I shall follow
this bill and give it my most careful consideration if it reaches

the Senate floor for action."

I have again written him, tonight, asking him to support 8.2322,
along with H. R. 9743, and what my study of the Rogers bill has
revealed. I do not know what the H.R. 9750 bill is, and so
stated in my letter.

Within a day or so, I shall write Senator Frank Church; also
ion. Harold Cooley and warren G. hagnusan, eXpressing my support
and desire for early hearings and favorable action on the two
bills mentioned.

It was a surprise to note your Washington, D. C. address, which

no doubt means you are no longer a part of New York, but it should
help materially, to be a part of the Washington scene, and con—

serve time and effort in your great work. It was a tremendous under-
taking. ‘

With best wishes for ever going forward, I am

Very sincerely yours,
f I: ‘4. 1}" "y j 2
654$uééiat/ 25<LZZ€V’
(Kiss) Amelia Schell

I do not have latest information, but am sure that the National
Catholic Soc. for Animal welfare axxmxkx are making rapid strides
in the right direction, and hope so.

 




July 13, 1965

Miss Amelia Schell
Box 255 . ,
Pocatello, Idaho 85201

Dear Miss Sahel]. :

Thanks‘for your kind letter. I'm glad to say that just last
Friday” Ernest Walker brought back the final draft of“ the man—
ual which has been retyped and is in the final process for
submission to the printer. ‘We were very grateful for your
generous contribution, and 3’. 1:10:36 it will not be lonw before
we can send you a copy.

Miss Draper is no longer with.the AWE, but she is still in
New York at her apartment and would be pleased to hear from
you if you should visit, I am sure.

We were glad to hear that you have read and reread our 13th
annual report; A new one will soon be written and published.
It is sad that Rachel Carson is gone. She is badly needed to
conﬁne to defend the sound thinking she put forth in ”Silent
Sp]? 0

Best wishes ,

Sincerely ,

President

08:10

 




Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho 83201
June 29, 1965

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute ‘
22 East 17th Street

New York 3, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

It seems somewhere in the literature received, I read that
ﬁrs. Draper is no longer associated with your Institute,
and I wondered about it.

I have just finished reading and re-reading your 13th Annual
Report received last November.

Recently I purchased Rachel Carson's book, "Silent Spring"; , ,
, also "Quality of Mercy" from the Mary Mitchell Fund, of theﬁuyﬁjmwfhf
/ at “sea: : in Boston, and sent them a contribution.

I‘::=;; ,

Occasionally I come across a memorandum I made, at the time 'lfulb4
I contributed $5 to your organization, and set it forward,

for future, but now that I am writing, would like to ask

how this book is progressing, which I was to receive, upon

its completion. 8W”. {3, ”dream. Weaker/~41,

I remember talking to Mrs. Draper and having to decline her
kind invitation to meet her in New York for lunch, when I

was home in 1960-1961, and was in no condition to meet any
one, due to pressures brought to bear upon me, settling my
mother's and aunt's estates, the latter of which necessitated
a contest, eventually settled by negotiation, rather than
throughtshe Surrogate.

. f I 4 ' \
Obit!» H34 hLJ/LLO i r}('; Mn

4/ ’ 7'
m, @Lwoeu'é. ems
( : I

(fined-3x6 41% (Li £4147

' , w save - .- L L ~
4/4/va L 4 plxki 4.1/19 ht" timid/C ,LLLLAC’ L 7414 LJL wait-(LL 7 ata-
QLCLL L54: 1 514/44 6.wa 44.64" 4W" K /’C‘L 6351.. LLLd. (" “((74 ﬁnal/[4% j ,

O r W' ’ a f . .~ ~ ~ . , \ . "{
4424,4le (:6) TC/LL'. 4LCLCA’ 67,411.; tinge Lu (In/veal. ”*4 (MK- {.1’1’347’

0

u.%.

 




November 19, l962

5'? f/ e
\%:L#&WM»V DO): 255, Pocatel 10, Idaho

D/ear Mrs. Stevens,

Herewith my contribution of $2 in currency. It isn' t much, but with.this
etter to the addressees, I am sending a contribution to each.

have read your account of your courageous fight, also Mrs. Bemelman's
[remarkable help, along with you, which is indeed, commendable, and should
mean a victory for the animals

A humanitarian here, Mr. Richard Johnson ,who operates the Phillips Service
Station, 4th Ave. and East Center, (native of Virginia) is working towards

rganizing a Humane Society, or shelter for Pocatello. He keeps check on
the very poor conditions existing at the dog pouné, and has forced the
Poundmaster to eed the animals better food ,in larger amounts; and has
rescued man d; d cats, as he related to me, and found good homes, also,
for a few. He has found the people of Pocatello apathetic, and is not sur-
prised that any former attempts to organize have failed.

I should tell you that I do feel so much better than I did when back east in
Brooklyn, involved in the "estates' mess", and I hope some day in the future,
if I ever come to New York, to avail myself or your kind invitation to visit
you at your office, of which I often think back upon. The estates' matters
however, are not yet settled.

I think I mentioned am doin?/all my humane work in my maiden name, by which

 




I am better known.

My best wishes to all of you, I am

Very sincerely yours,

IF / (I ,, .;
szmﬁk& Z§$A%Q

(Miss) Amelia Schell

 




American Humane Assoc.,
Mr. Rutherford T. Phillips
896 Pennsylvania St.,
Denver 3, Colorado

The Anti-Cruelty Society

Mr, J. J. Shaffer, Eng. Director
157 West Grand Ave.,

Chicago 10, Ill.

American Soc. for P.C.A.

Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
October 3, 1962

N. E. Antivivisection 300.,
Mr. George R. Barnum
Boston, Mass.

Catholic Study Circle for Animal

‘Welfare
Capt. St. J. Eyre-Smith, M.C.,
Lough lne House, Skibbereen Co.,
Cork, Ireland.

Mr. George H. Tuscher, Dir.Humane Work

441 East 92nd St.,
New York 28, N. Y.

Animal Rescue League of Boston
Mr. Carlton E. Buttrick, Pres.,
PO Box 265

Boston 17, Mass.

Bide-a-ﬁee Home Assoc., Inc.,
410 East 38th St.,
New York 16, N. Y.

National Catholic Soc. for Animal
734-l5th St.,N.W., 'Nelfare
Washington 5, D. C.

The Humane Society of New York
313 East 58th Street
New York 22, N. Y.

c/Society for Animal Protective

... .gﬁwau, Legislation
745 Fifth Ave.,

New York 22, N. Y.

. 9 * . f.
Dear Friends of ﬁnlmalS}0%MpCAm“dZMé.&§¢@%¢7

I Wish to bring to your attention a shocking incident, which occurred here,
in Pocatello — of mistreatment of a poor unfoﬂhnate cat, set on fire and
killed by two boys, the account of which appeared in the Idaho State ,

Journal on both September 18th and 19th, 1962.

The accounts state that

officers investigating a complaint from a woman in the 200 block of South

Garfield, found three youths involved, ages 16, 17 and 18.

Two of the

boys, Gary Lynn Hall, 18 and a 16—year old, were arrested, Monday, Sept-
ember 17, for killing a cat by setting it on fire, and throwing it out a

second story window;

and took it to the second story apartment.

One of the youths told officers he caught the cat

There Gary Lynn Hall, the 18-

year old, 255 South Garfield, Pocatello, told officers he poured lighter

fluid on the cat.

He was charged in a complaint, signed by Detective H.

J. Moldenhauer with killing and mistreating animals, by pouring lighter

fluid on a cat, and which was later set afire by another youkh.

He was

fined $25 in Mdnicipal Court on Tuesday, September 18th.

The 16-year-old said the cat ran by him, just as he ignited a cigarette

lighter, and the cat caught on fire, accidentally.

He was charged in a

complaint signed by Detective holdenhauer with being a juvenile delin-
quent, and was cited into Probate Court, to appear Friday morning, Sept-

ember 21, for final disposition of his case.
week-ends in jail, as the result of mistreating the cat.

He will spend the next six
Probate Judge

“W. H. Jensen levied the jail sentence, Fridaya September 21: whereby the
boy will be held in juvenile detention each weekend at the Bannock County
Jail, from Friday afternoon after school until Mbnday morning when school

’starts again.

 




-2...

This case should be given wide publicity in the hope the punishment
will serve as a warning and set a precedent, and it is for that reason
I am apprising the Humane societies, of which I am a member.

Probate Judge Jensen should be heartily commended for taking his stand
in the case by meting out punishment, rather than coddling, these
hoodlums - potential murderers - and setting an example throughout
the community; it must be the hope of every kind-hearted person that
there will never be a recurrence of this sort of cruelty, and that
these youths will have learned the importance of kindness to animals.

I have also read recently a newspaper account of a dog being found,
who had been shot; also a cat with an arrow through it.

I omitted above, that the 17-year old was not charged, as he was not
involved in the mistreatment of the cat and tried to stop it. Pound-
master Loran Kingsford found the cat, dead.

'While this letter is dated October 3, time has already passed to
November let, my delay being due to the press of daily matters,

I shall await with interest the comments of the organizations to
‘which I am writing.

Very sincerely yours,

, ,1 . / 44
aid/L569; j) Cit/{f
(M168) Amelia Sahel],

P.S. Since writing my above letter, an article appeared in the Idaho
State Journal of November 2, stating that Thomas William Dinwiddie, 20,
and Gary Lynn Hall, 18, botn of 255 South Garfield, were each sen~ ' ‘
tensed to BO’days in jail Thursday (November 1) by Municipal Judge R.
Don Bistline for stealing lunches from.Pocatello High School,.after

authorities at the high school said Hall and Winwiddie were ap~ ’

prehended trying to steal lunches.

, dig}
(Miss) Amelia Schell

 




3:993 bruary 15, 19:33

Rigs fmalia: Sahel].
333m: 255'
F'ocatellm, 1:35:10

Bear F1138 kichall,

Thank you for rmurning our slip concerning the Infar-
maticm Reports; are are: very glad that yea wish to bacon» a number,
and anclcsa an application blank for year convenienca. Our re»
cards indicate thsrt we have received. no check or application blank
from you, but I chm ckmi with the other orgganizaticn with which Firs.
‘*~"‘b<:wens is active (Society far Animal Protective legislation) and
find that you grant. than 32.00 in January. Perhaps it was this my-
mnt “that led you to beliave you had ahead)? joWd um Axum}. welfare
lﬁﬁtitum‘u

mg}: best ﬂaws, 3; am

Sincorgly yours,

ﬁstella Eraper
735?;an blank .6; 322?. Executive :25 mtary

 




an

pr

For some time we have been sending you c0pies of the bi-monthly Information Reports of
the Animal Welfare Institute, which we hOpe have been of interest and value . We are now
revising our mailing lists, and inviting those who have been on our list for several months
to become members. We hOpe very much that you will wish to join, and an application
blank is enclosed for your convenience . In any case, we should appreciate your indicating
below whether or not you wish to continue receiving our Reports.

,5 I wish to become a member.

I wish to receive the Information Reports free a little longer.
__ Please send me your listing of other materials available from the Institute.

Please remove my name from your mailing list

Comments:

”(may Lg“?

 

! \ f” - I; .t
- ' I - . g 5': ,5 If:
- (P le a s e p r 1 nt) Nam e (jlm/M 545311?" (ézi
" ’1: . i.

 

ﬂit-Mﬂl’“

1' x' ‘i ‘ \ ﬁg 1

.5- " 1 1”,.” ' , ’.

ﬂ 6.. vied/v: ,W 5“, If e :f’ 111 {C
Q” J31; MU." “u

 




Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
April 25, 1962

Mrs. Christine Stevens, Pres.
Animal Welfare Institute

22 East 17th Street

New York 3, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

I have copy of your letter of April 12th to Montgomery
Ward, re. clipping from the Idaho State Journal of April 3,
1962 in which the store advertises "Free chicks," etc.

Your letter is a very good one, and sets forth exactly

the feelings of such organizations as yours, and the work you
are doing to prevent such practices, and I would appreciate, a .
having a copy of their letter to you. gqtﬁnvwwvﬂmaazgdu

' The American Humane Association in Denverfhas also mawﬁbgg
had crusades against the coloring of chicks, and giving away GHQ}
of these little creatures at Easter Time. I am wondering if ‘ ”
you would wish to communicate with that organization, letting
them know about this practice here, and Mbntgomery Ward
& Company, receiving a letter, also from that organization,
will be forced to do something about it.

I

I did not have time to write to the Denver Association,
but having had an envelope showing your address, I knew it
would save time writing to you,fgmmp

Another advertisement by Montgomery ward - One Free
LIVE Bunny with purchase of $10 or more. This is the first
opportunity I have had to send this to you, but if we can work
against this.cruelty, perhaps it will be prevented next year.

Also a pearing in the Dear Abby column, April 23, is.a
letter from " hicken—Kratndx Hearted" to the effect)of the
thoughtless parents who buy their children live baby chicks
for Easter; the kiddies soon chase or squeeze the life out of
the helpless little birds and really enjoy them less than their
candy Easter eggs, and Abby hopes the correspondentYSitagpletter
will cause parents to think twice before giving live baby chicks
to children who are too young to care for them properly. I am
glad to see that some one else_is interested in this same matter;
and you might like to writeﬁﬂih'this way the matter is impressed
upon the minds of readers, who never thought of the cruelty in
this practice, before.

I shall be glad to hear further from you, and again thank
you for taking up this important matter for humaneness.

P.S. I still retain my maiden name Very sincerely yours,
for these matters, as it is too A, , /‘./ /
much to try to sinus: send changes Ltﬁkéxéifwjﬁgxi{/
in: which I don't have time (Miss) Amelia"Schell

to do.

 




   
 

           
 
 

" IDAHO STATE JOURNAL ‘ Thurgaay, April 19,1962...”

 

a

‘. .7 . . L‘

      
 
 

Hippety-HOPpety
Mom and Dad to Wards

NE FREE

  
    
      
   

0 N lAY-A-WAY e

v ‘
.-,-‘

HERTIAGE DELUXE—MADE ° -
E on“ son mums lav ROYAL

   
 

“ . .1 80 356.1053; V

“0‘91.




IDAHO STATE JOURNAL

Monday, April 23, 1962—9

 

33 Dear Abby:

DEAR ABBY: I am a long-dist-
ance operator and my voice must
be very interesting because I’ve
had many men try to make dates
with me. I was never interested,
because what kind of man would
want to go out with a girl he’s never
seen? Anyway, Christmas Eve a
man was trying desperately to
phone his girl and he was miser-
able because he couldn’t locate her.
He liked my voice and I liked his
manner and, to make a long story
short, I let him pick me up after

this letter is from because I could
get fired.) Well, we are going to—
gether now, but when people ask
me how I met him, what should I
say?

GIRL WITH SMILING VOICE

DEAR GIRL: Put that smile in
your voice and tell your party to
'dial information.

/.
work. (Please don’t let on where{
l

DEAR ABBY: I have been read-
ing your column faithfully ever
since it began six years ago and I

 

0“"

agree With your answers about 99%
of the time. But there is one part
of your thinking that is full of prej-
udice, and very narrow-minded, to
says the least, and that is marriage
outside one’s faith. I hope you will
be big enough to print this, Abby,
because I would like to see some
letters from intelligent people who
have made such marriages work.
A DEVOTED ABBY FAN
DEAR FAN: So would I. l

‘/

~~,...-v

DEAR ABBY: Please say some-
thing in your column to the thought-
less parents who buy their child-
ren live baby chicks for Easter.
The kiddies soon chase or squeeze
the life out of the helpless little
birds and really enjoy them less
than their candy Easter eggs.

CHICKEN-HEARTED

DEAR CHICKEN-HEARTED: I,
too, am “chicken - hearted” and
hope that your timely letter will
cause parents to think twice before

‘ giving live baby chicks to children

By Abigail Van Buren '

it

who are too young to care for them
properly.

DEAR ABBY: Three cheers for
the girl who changed her name
from Annie to Audrey. I don’t
blame her at all. I recently read
a book about the. Barbary Coast
and there were four Annies in it.
Dirty Annie, Wagon Spoke Annie,
Box Car Annie and Glass Eye An-
me.

My name is Anna, and I have
been called everything from Orph-
an Annie to Tugboat Annie. There
ought to be a law against authors
maligning people named Anna.
Sign me. ANNETTE (now)

Everybody's got a problem.
What’s yours? For a personal re
ply send a self-addressed, stamped
envelope to Abby, Box 3365, Bev-
erly Hills, Calif. Copies of Abby’s
booklet, “How To Have A Lovely
Wedding,” are available for 50
cents each by writing to same
address.

X Your Health By Dr. 105- .- . -

t
i

 

In.) -.

 




Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
April 9,1962

Mrs. Estella Draper, Executive Secretary
Animal Welfare Institute

22 East 17th Street

New York 3, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Draper,

I cut this clipping out of the paper, being an advertisement
by Montgomery-Ward, here, and send it to you by air mail,

in the hope that you may be able to put a stop to this cruelty
to these cute little chicks.

It appeared in our Idaho State Journal, April 3rd, which is
our local paper.

Iread an article about a year ago, I believe by the Dan American
Humane Society, Denver, stressing the importance of notifying

it of just this same thing - but I believe it was against the
colored chicks - but this is as bad, I believe.

Children don't know how to handle these chicks, and many
of them will be squeezed, smothered and stepped on.
that
I am surprised xxxan organization the size of Montgomery-Ward would
to participate in xuxhx this kind of inducement to get people
into their store.

You might be able to do something about it, by approaching

the Montgomery-ward Company in New York City - they may not

know anything about this offer of free chicks. It might be,

too, that this will continue Km till Easter. This is the quickest
I could get this information to you.

My name is "Nielsen" but I still have my mail coming to me

in my maiden name, Amelia Schell, as I would have too many to ~
notify of the change, and I have held my PO box for so long, and
so many here know me by "Emily Schell" that it makes no
difference whether they use the name "Nielsen" or "Schell" -
and if you wish, you may address my mail my me in the name of

"Schell" which will also eliminate any confusion at the Post
Office, and be easier for you to remember.

With best wishes to you and Mrs. Stevens - also Mrs. Bemelmans
I am

Very sincerel ours
I hope that this y y ’

practice of offering H //’n~/:¢ /X/azé7
chicks can be stopped. (Miss) Amelia Schell

 




.,
m “.7 .7”, .~.
ﬂ; Li». M. J»

.‘Q.

If:
{,n J. ‘ ‘ -~

I? r‘! v .

? c. f
‘I- I . ‘ “'83.!“ 1w¥ '1'?
.. a. 'JlQhLVP .., Us w v

mt. Q Q
9""! ”2 ,.\(., r.‘ . . . . . \ a . . _. cl ’3 a,“ J: T ‘a‘r‘
u I. 3 i - ‘ - v .
‘4! w a i-w in» _ ‘. ‘ . , M. ,' . v~ ‘ £833. a". 1- A2”

9; v: 4::

. ‘. t g ‘
WNW»;

‘3

, . ., .3 .3; (M...
ms 2:. M: 23.21% 3,

:St81la Dr

"W ‘n 'I. .r
xi“ ”3

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 EAST 17TH STREET

NEW YORK 3, N. Y,

OREGON 5-1069

February 2, 1961

Miss Amelia SChell
BOX 255
Pocatello, Idaho

Dear Miss Schell,

The recent nation-wide publicity given to a "sticks and stones
rabbit hunt" in North Carolina, sponsored by the local post of the
American Legion, reminded me that we have not heard, recently, of
any more rabbit drives in Idaho similar to those about which we
corresponded last winter. I wonder if these are continuing; if not,
perhaps, all the protests made by humanitarians had some effect. I
should appreciate your letting us know whether you have heard of any

such drive being held in recent months, or planned for the near
future.

Thanking you, I am

Sincerely yours,
a a

I
a. - ’l
'1' N \

aﬁza gxxt- w an “a
Estella Draper
Executive Secretary

3m 4151! Muir é7o| M w,%., TE 4-2113

4Vf1ﬁhu4a£E?dLuu¢ﬂqnwnluuphm$,u,t'lud.zk;1fﬂzawaﬁ 13khuwr
WQMWWMIQ m.

(5*.4. +u47.gu%61 éuxiudL15f§aZumL.

w

(M) ma; Max

 




 

By Cleveland Amory “\‘SCEIle, and until We get Stlch national
, _ r laction, we hereby declare on‘ any and

P AT Harvard before the inaugu- / all American Legionnaires of Harmony,
ration there were three presi-i North Carolina, open season, _
dents—~Nathan Pusey, president l

of Harvard, Tom Lamont, president of, .

the Board of Overseers, and John F. ' lm’mm‘"

Kennedy, President-elect of the counff"

try: Paul Cabot, treasurer of Harvard,1

spoke to Kennedy. “I didn’t vote for

you,” he said frankly, “but one of my

brothers did.” Replied Kennedy,

“\Vhich one, Mr. Cabot?” “Well,” said

Cabot, going down the list of his

brothers, “it wasn’t him—nor him—nor

——I’ll tell you who I think it was, I think

it was Charlie.” “Well,” said Kennedy,

“I’m glad one Cabot is for me anyway.”1

Said Cabot, “You missed the wholei

point. Now you’ve got two of us.”

...,.«.~ -__.__,.._..-

The spirit in Washington was electri
and, at times during the inauguration‘
even electronic. It was also a spirit oi
youth. Both Republican Democrats and
Democratic Democrats seemed to be
united, and there was a real feeling,
once the show was over, of buckling
down to work and putting the show
(i.e., the country) on the road. “Even
those of us who weren’t a part of it,”
said Republican Senator Javits, “feel a
part of it.”

l

Covering the inaugural for the Car-
roway program presented a particular
problem in view of the taping nowa-
days. For example, we were on tape
Wednesday night (taping Thursday
morning’s Show) and yet, though we
were taping in New York, we were sup-
posed, Thursday morning, t0‘ be in
Washington. “Here in New York,” be—
gan one spiel, “where we are—we mean

‘left—last night, things are very difler-
ent from Washington where we will be
mean are today.”

r

. The most infuriating story of the
month was the story of the American
Legionnaires of Harmony, North Caro;
lina, who have taken to hunting rabbits
by flushing them into the open and then
beating, bashing, and ﬂailing them to
death with clubs, sticks, jagged rocks,
etc. “Some of the more dedicated to'
this sport,” reported the New York
World Telegram and Sun, which de-
serves much credit\for breaking the,
brutal story, “go after the rabbits" with
their bare hands.” The whole stery}.
-’ pointed up the need for Htlmaned'iand‘
Animal ‘W‘elfa’re assistanCe on anatlonal 7;:

,- ,_.

 

 




\
OJ§$% They also.pay Tor animal stories which are accepted; perhaps they will
.publish some of mine.

- Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
;- , December 21, 1959

Dear Mrs. Stevens,
,Am trying to get my cards written and where I owe letters, these, too.
Already it is midnight, at the office, without having had my dinner,but I
still have so much writing to do. ,

Also, it is difficult to piece the ends together, after our long silence,
but perhaps after the holidays, I will hear further from you.

Did I tell you I am a member of Mass.SPCA., and receive their magazine

Our Dumb Animals, in which I read the inspiring article about Mrs. Johnsnn,
(Wild Horse Annie) and the award she received by that Soc.‘”* '
The Animal Rescue League, Boston, to whom I sent a copy of my writing about
the little cat, killed on our main street, here, 9/20, have asked my per-
mission to publish it in their magazine, with slight changes.
Did I tell you I am a member of Gem State Authors‘ Guild, and have had my
Christmas acrostic style verse published in Idaho State Journal,Euzz of the
Burg (by N1Cholas Ifft) without solicitation; that-and my poem, tribute to
our Guild President, were published in our Gem magazine (the Guild).
The cats will miss me-tonight. I think some are wise house cats, but feed
all of them, anyway;i.e., take the food out and call Kitty. Going out late,
perhaps the house cats are home, and the little strays then are fed.

I am wondering if I have sent these clippings to you heretofore; if you are
not interested, I don't believe I need them for anything, and you may dis—

pose of them as you see it.

 




-2— .
Have you seen the publication, the first, of the National Catholic Soc.for
Animal Welfare, called "God's Animalé"-from Washington,D.C. It must be quite
an undertaking to establish such an important organization.
I wrote Will Judy about establisﬁ‘a cemetery, and he made some comments,and
added that I should keep on writing; he likes to get my letters. Also appropu
of Dog Week, said What we need is more Miss Schells,.which I thought were
nice complimentarand his friendly tone pleased me.
Did I tell you about the little dog,here at Express office,lO/21/59--I have
a shorthand note, apparently to mention it to you. IOPh, when we opened his
crate he had no water; was going to have about an hour's travel, after mid—
inight. The man told me his mistress walked him and told the dog "not to make
any noise% that when I"oame along he started to cry and whine." When I left
after talking to him, he was quiet. . ,
I also have another note to mention to you.Is it preper for a fisherman,to
break the necks of fishes, to prevent them from flOpping and getting away;an.
is it humane, so that they do not suffocate, but die immediately?A man in
the office told me that is what he does. '
Also am wondering if it is necessary for me to keep all my correspondence,&
replies from senators on the Humane Slaughter and Wild Horse matters. .I
thought tixitxixx of keeping the Congressional Rocordpaﬁggsthe correspondenc:
I could destroy, as I have such an accumulation of genresnmnﬁﬁnﬁﬁx I Will
keep the friendly letter Mrs. Johnston wrote in response to mine. ,
If I did not thank you for the stamps which you so kindly sent to me, I
should do so now.
I hope ou will have a happy Christmas, and every good wish for the New Year
Also, that my acrostic verse Christmas card will appeal to you.
Sincerely, (A , C-l ,
Amelia Schell CUM-[CL - ((13.6?

 




'1
ii.“

3"

}

0
n;
my

‘4

"H I

s ca}:

7.} ..

.

hf“
.- ‘13
4LA'im‘

"Y".
«
\L

U‘ "' ‘
_ f‘ r L-)
3.-.; K, 1

"I 1

'7‘”
"
I1,El

7"

{"3“ T
”1.1;. U
I.

‘ w.
1
a

f.
i,’

113C
’1

1.:

I‘\'1
J- 1:11:74?

4,
r
§r‘.

(a
3

’7 CD

..'. a._'

1"

J ‘47. f ..

:1“
.J.‘
U 1’

1
3‘51

‘x
{J

mks

 




 




r 3"" ‘
35%;;
5‘38.

m4

gm: '

g

“‘3‘? ,
‘3'? ﬁg; ‘5‘”: ‘ ‘
f} ‘ﬁgl'A "uh .v

£2,

£59434. —
'3.
4:

5,“. .
.4.

1

“a;

CV
[A ’. “A;

E: yriikﬁ“ - ’ ‘
fwws‘m‘P-‘f

?A;§?
a

 




February 2, 1961'

Miss Amelia Sdhell
Bax 255 .
Pocatello, Idaho

Dear MiS$ Schell,

The recent nation~wide publicity given to 3 “sticks and stones
rabbit hunt" in North Carolina, anonsored by thh local post of tha‘
American Legion, reminded mm that we have not heard, recently, of
any more rabbit dtives in Idaho similar to thoae about which we
corresponded last winter. I wonder if these are continuing; if not,
perhaps, all the protests made by humanitarians had some effect. I
should appreciate your letting us know whether you have heard of any

such drive being held in recent mbnths, or plannad for the near
future.

Thanking you, I am

Sincerely yours,

Estella Draper
Executive Secretany

 




“QILS. I will write tt>Qd£ﬁﬂe8jslators about thf Biag%esén§hiaﬁgxg night
ﬁbd stay at the office. I am so far behind, and so US},
iﬂ fl —like cold, again. It is already after midnight at the office, and too
late to go in the alley, but I am Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
utting food out for cats that April 18, 1960
forage in garbage cans. We have a dog poisoner, here in town; poisoned a
Bear mpg, Stevens: little cat several weeks ago. Nicholas Ifft FUb-
lished a letter I wrote to him concerning this.
Thank you for sending me copy of the letter you wrote Mrs. Helen
Eeed Moffitt, regarding the cruel Jack rabbit drives. We have not seen
any mention of it in the Idaho Falls Post Register, published in Idaho
Falls, for about a month.

As I understand it from the articles that were in the paper, Snow fences,
net wire, wire panels and steel posts are used to direct and pen the
animaisxxsmxitxssemxxan rabbits, so it seems these must have to be

large enclosures.

In one of the Humane magazines, by one of the societies, I was reading
about a cat trap, when their men have to go out and bring a cat down

from a tree, but no doubt these are for individual animals, and would not
serve in the case of thousands of ratbits they are trying to direct into a
corral.

I have written to the National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare, a
counterpart organization of the Catholic Study Circle for Animals, Cork,
Ireland. The former is circularizing all Catholic parishes with their
booklet "Cruelty to Animals“. The reason I wrote to the second named,
tee to bring out the theory that giving this cruel andb’n§%mﬁ¥e method

used in the drives, as much publicity as possible, and t to the
attention of as many as we can, inxtkaxhnpdxtthxxnix might bring an end
to these clubbing tactics. Perhaps the Cork organization might know of a
humane trap.

I enclose numerous clippings, which I have placeiin my file to bring to
your attention when time permits. I notesome I accumulated in 1959,

and do not recall offhand whether you have already seen these, as it is
likely I 8% t them to you, and after perusing, you returned. However, you
might find gﬁsinteresting reading on the related matter of hunting.

I cut out of the Pet magazine, a cut showing a trap, which catches rabbits,
and other animals, alive and unhurt. It is made in Ossining, N. Y. Per—
haps inasruch as you were considering that the Victor—Conibear trap
might be used, you might like to inquire into this one shown. May I have
the skippx cut returned, so I may write also.
I am touching on these matters, until I am able to devote more time to
writing.
I also note copy of letter Vernon H. Powell, County Engineer, sent to you
regarding the new stables that are to be constructed at our new Fair—
grounds.
If we could be assured of as definite a response in regard to the poor
little rabbits, we would be well toward eradicating the present method.
From his last paragraph in which he commends you for the wonderful work
performed by the Animal welfare Institute, it would appear that he is
familiar, through some means, as to the work of the Institute.
There is a book published by ?opular_Science, catalog number H108, Animal
Control, by w. E. Eadie, sale price $1, being a guide to the control of
destructive animals in garden, farms , etch. Woréd abrooikflettmbsy VIIOPUBEEQ 'Pfiveedsutcoack"
tional and giye practical‘fuagesﬁjoiﬁéjggajnfke«UP§B office in NY and can
which Will mail to youi-un.e:§ig. with illustratifn§~¥85§ sincerely yours,
get one. It's interest ng re g are 1a g 1

 




  
 

 
  
        
   
   
    
   
   
    
     
   
     
          
     
        
     
 
     
   
  
    
 
    
   
 
    
  
 
    
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
    
 
  
       

V 6"“: “’4
f” Box 2 SS , P O c at e 11 O , I (13 ho

MW August 25, 1960
Dear Mrs. Stevens, -

Before I write about the Beagles, you probably read an item in the papers

in June, regarding the NY Herald Tribune learning that senators have secreﬂy
ordered a 20x20 ft. swimming pool for the basement of the old Senate Off.Bldg
ixnm I have kept the clipping in case your reply might be for me to write to
the Ida.senators asking for information,and a suggestion as to the kind of
letter to write. It's to be paid for out of $100,000 remaining in an approp-
riation voted in 1958 to remodel "rusty plumbing" in the off. bldg.

I want to tell you that the UPRR is abolishing jobs here,zand wonder if such
a condition exists in NY. Seems the Company is getting even with the unions
who have succeeded in securing a S¢ an hour increase (not cost of living)
for employee, retroactive to July 1, 1960. This move will throw so many who
cannot displace anywhere, on the unemployment allowance; also the RR is re-
bulletining many of the jobs, so that these jobs can absorb the work; in
other instances many reports are being cancelled, and those remaining given
to other employee. A position was abolished in this office, and I have been
given some of the work of thixxﬂnx that desk and another desk, while the
steno at the second-mentioned desk devotes her time to filing and steno work
in the Personal Record Bureau. It is a depressing situation. Employee af-
fected in other parts of Idaho, such as Nampa, on the same seniority roster,
are ”bumping" dgggehere; and those on other rosters who have exhausted their
seniority on that-ens, and have seniority on the Superintendent's roster, on
WhiCh I have seniority since 8/18/h9’ have the right to "bump" inxxhix here.
With jobs cut off and f making of reports cancelled, lessens the work even on
the jobs remaining. Is this a general depression throughout the country, or
is it only now due to political strategy? A co-worker informs me that there

is a depression in the east, and we are only feeling it here, now. I should
like to have your views.

Presumably I have not sent you Pierre's Lookout (clipping) from the issue of

Intermountain 6/9/60, as I find it in my envelope of accumulated items to go

over and send to you. At the time I probably found interesting, the notation
that Pierre Pulling has lived in Dutchess County, and started school in 1897

and went to high school and A college; also that an ancestor was a friend of

Paul Revere's; also that he is writing a book. I was interested in his acct.
of being in NYC less than u hours "and it was long enough."

I find I have not written to Congressman Budge, and wish to ask you if I
should do so now. You will note my letter of August 22 written to those
named, including Gracie Pfost. Of these I have mniyxhexrdxfnmm written to,
have had replies only from Senatom Church and Dworshak, of Idaho. I have

not had time to write letters of thanks to those suggested, for which I am
sorry, but there are so many demands upon my time, I do have to forego some
things. National Dog Week is coming in September and I have been appointed
Chairman. That is why I am trying to catch up on what is necessary, then de-
vote the remaining time to this woa ﬁgau will note I have included Sen.Prox—
mire, as he has expressed his views.in samex one of the printed communications
you sent me. Neither have I had time to send the editorials to Nicholas G.
Ifft, editor of Idaho State Journal, Pocatello, asking him to publish a simi-
lar editorial, for the same reason, I have not had time. So I thought if the
matter is still pending in the Senate, and it is not too late, I might send
Mr. Ifft the editorials with transmittal letter tnfmrmtngxhtm asking him to
publish an editorial in favor of the measure - or if time is of the essence,

you might wish to do it yourself. He might pay more attention to the request
than if I wrote it.

 




 
  

  
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
    
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
   
    
    
   
  
 
   
   
 
   
  
   
   

4 _ We Wafﬂe

~2- 633 Norgh Grant, Pocatello,lda.,
I believe on two occasions I have asked that Mrs. Helen Reed Moffitt/be
placed on your list, so that she would receive the same literature as I
receive. In this way she is kept up to date, and it knipx saves me the time
of writing her about it. She said that you did not send her xhxxixxtx
anything, when I received communications from you as late as July 30th. Shnx

I sent her copies of my letters written in May, and she wrote to these people
but I have not seen the wording of her letters.

About "Blackie" - After m sing this lost or a an oped Spaniel, I saw a man
sitting on the cement f at the frontﬁfaﬁﬁi r ve‘ngr in my car; he ap-
peared to be an Indian, and was very courteous inviting me to sit down on the
cement wall, but I told him I had my dinner cooking, and would have to re-
turn to my apt. stnrtly. He said he was willing to look after the dog, as he
would be there for about u months (abt.0et.)when I told him what I thought of
doing; he said he asked the lady who manages the place, and she said she
"thought" the dog-catcher came. He was very sorry and said "Beware of those
who don't like dogs as a dog is your best friend and will defend you from
danger."He also said a man with a dog can lie down in a field to rest, or
sleep, even at night, and his dog will stay right there, and ward off in-
truders; also protect you from a snake that might appear;“also a cat will pro
tect you from other animals or reptiles nearby; but your dog will warn you
also." He said that according to legend a dog is on the shore of the river
we cross (probably Styx) and he will know instinctively whether you have
befriended and loved dogs in your lifetime; if not he abandons you on the
shore and does not accompany you across, but on the otherhand, if you have,
he will take you across.f I told him about my tributes to my Snazzy, to
which he listened; also about the cats I feed in the alley, and at that momen-
a white one was scooting along the opposite gutter toward the alley, andwe
both said, "There goes one of them now." Hesaid there should be some pro-
vision for the care of animals in Pocatello. I reciprocated his kind words
of thanks "for talking" to him with the comment that people are so selfish
now-a-days and greedy they don't care about homeless animals, and that my
landlady said she would like "to shoot" the alley cats; they run in the gar-
bage and spread disease. She is the one who instructed the manager of thew‘r
bldg. to write the letters a year ago, prohibiting tenants from having cat and
dog pets. Wender what She would gasp, if I brought a h-footed pet other than
cat or dog: I phoned the poundmaster the following day, and he finally re-
membered the dog, saying a woman phoned him that they did not want the dog.
(Incidentally I have seen another black dog there, which they Indian said be-
longed to a lady who lived in onejof.th {tiny houses behind the "tenement"
--which I do not see now. I askediﬁhére ”he dog was and he said it was an old
dog; spayed and gotten fat, and he shot it. I expressed horror, and he said
he can't take care of them all; I told him what a lovable pet it would make,
and what I thought of doing mf some one would take care of it, but now it was
too late. He said he always watches the papers for lost dogs and has had
notices in the paper (I have never seen them) that people could come to the
pound for a pet, but he said that the peOple don't want to care for a dog.

He also said the shooting part of his job is what he doesn't like, and I ans-
wered that I would not want that on my conscience.,g- 7m 0.

Clipping 7/3/60 from Idaho State Journal, re. Fairgﬁﬁy furrier, who was on a
committee last year for fireworks stated that those who were responsible fer
horses were told to remove them, but did not; the horses broke down the cor-

rals .. néi a . , lot; 0. damage; and __ i? he stated that s%mething: caught on
fiPGgﬁ’ ’ ‘8 E1? 1 A, an- : . : me 2 : : b ‘ — .gm
tmhave—theweerralswtor‘

  
  

 
   
  

   

   
  

A

It might interest you to note "Resident Fined for Hunting in Reservation.”

‘lso an undated cli in on "GOPHERS" robabl all from th 60 a er.
You need not returgpthgse. p y e 7/3/ p p

‘éheaanimalswﬁéndihew
‘ ' n-lthe-\f_ir.eworks--»~ area.

    
             
        
 




J v '3-
My dry-cleaner, while we were talking about fishing and hunting, and throwing
back fish he his uncle (or brother-in-law) did not want, that fish do not
have sensation of pain in their mouths, from the hook after thrown back into
the water. Wonder how they know this, and if it is true. He also stated
that this relative wounded a fawn, and he never will forget how it cried like
a baby, and that in order to end the poor animal's misery, had to go close

21x12 in order to kill it. I think he said that that experience affected him
so greatly he never went hunting again.

Confidential communications enclosed.

Did I write and tell you about the bees in June or July? A shipment annex
came in via Amer.Ry Expr., and the man in charge told me that they came from
Mt Minnesota, and apparently not sufficient sugaruwater was supplied in

the cans affixed on inside of the wire-mesh cages, as practically all the
bees were dead; they lay in a pile onx in both cages about h or 5" deep, and
the consignee had gone to get more sugar water, for the survivors, and that
he was not going to accept the shipment which represented a loss of abt.$75.
I felt so sorry to see all those bees, trying so hard to climb up the wire
mesh only to fall_down on the heap of the dead ones, and no doubt the weight
representing bee-weight, crushed those that had fallen. They were frantic,
in their attempt to survive, and the man said that without the sugar water
they could not live. Perhaps you know something about bees.

This of course is very confidential, as now would be the wrong time to have

any kind of expose. The AHA works, also, for safe transportation of animals:
and I read the articles in their ”Review" - believe also the Mass. SPCA
write about this in their "Our Dumb Animals" magazine.

I am sorry that this is so much to read, but it brings me up to date on the
papers I had accumulated in your file.

Kindly let me know ah what the next move should be in regard to the Beagles.
I presume if this law goes into effect it will, at least, protect experi-
mental animals, but not do away with vivisection, to which I am opposed. xﬁnx
I understand that the Beagles in some cases die in agony from their suffering
in these experiments, and when sick they are unattended; also that there are
rats and mice in that basement going through the same ordeal. It is just
something for these medical students to practice on. My uncle many years ago
told us when he was studying to be a doctor in Vienna (and probably here in
America) they would experiment with human corpses(plural), and it was
terrible how they would throw parts at each other, that they had amputated.

I hope that has all been done away with now, since he became a doctor in
1907.

I trust you have had a pleasant summer. It's been hot here, hut minus the
humidity we have in the east, but suddenly it's turned cold; Monday it rained
and hailed, putting snow on the tops of the hi surrounding highemé mountains.

No one can recall snow this early, ever. I heard that NY had quite a nice
summer, not too hot.

With best wishes, I am S incerely yours,

new WM
Amelia SChell

' ' ’ from Henry
Did I send ou the letter from Frank Church 6/8/60, also reply ,
Dworshak 6/g/60?- the only 2 I have heard from. Gracie Pfost lS always prompt

in replying} will see if she replies to my 8/22 letter.

 




tx

o u
{‘

K

\th _

" [Ck/J A

ﬂow ‘ Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
June 9, 1960

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

I enclose copy of my letter written jointly to Senators Dworshak and
Church, of Idaho, on June 3rd, of which I also sent a copy to Mrs.
Moffitt for her study in writing a similar letter on behalf of the _/
Beagles . “A; 4, f Q1 f9 “i 1;: (“is out:

. éaﬂW' copy of
With my lettergof May 26th I enclosed/my letter of 4/11 0 the new
President of the Idaho Humane Society, Gowen Field, Boi.e, together
with Attorney Donaldson's reply, with request for retu n, as noted
thereon. Recently there has come a Spaniel dog, to t house on%£%%d§xt
oo

corner from where I live. I firs ,%%w it in the alley and brough r

‘out“t“5”“i‘“t); then I noted it at th blouse. I do not know the occupants,

but believe they are mostly people living on public assistance, and it

is more the rooming house type, where the occupants probably cook on
hot—plates. Ehe lady who owns the premises has a sister named Mrs.

Smith, who was visiting there last week, from Utah; seeing her talking

to another lady at the premises, and the black dog being petted by the
latter, I walked over, and asked about the dog. They informed me that it
had been there about a week or so, and they were feeding it; that it ap-
peared to have been injured, but was walking better. XIXK I have been
bringing food there late every night and calling softly "Blackie" so as
not to be heard or seen , and this would bring the grateful dog from out
of the shadows. I brought it milk in a cut down large milk carton; dog
food; the flavored biscuits and kibbled food, all of which it would eat,
and I would take the containers back with me but leave the milk. Last
night I left the food and when I went there tonight it had become water—
soaked from the hail storm and rain we had today; however, I left%ﬁflk

and théﬁﬁiscuits and kibbled food in a little corner at the in cement
fence, back entrance. Later I will go to the PO (it's past 11PM now) in

my car, and as.I pass there, will look fax out of my car for the dog.

He would wag his tail as though saying, "How did you know my name was
Blackie". He showed such love to the woman who was petting him, and night
before last, when he responded to my whispered call, he rolled on the side
walk. When I first saw him in the alley, he looked like a little black
bear—whe is quite broadrvand I think an old dog, as Mrs. Smith had her coac
dog who wanted to play with "Blackie" but Blackie paid no attention, while
the coach dog was biting his ears, trying to play. I mentioned I did n¢
want the dog-catcher to get the dog, that I might find some one who would
take it. Now is the time for license renewals, and I am fearsome not see—
ing the dog tonight and last night, that someone might have disposed of
it—‘or Mrs. Smith and her son (the latter already middle~aged) might have
taken it in their car and abandoned it elsewhere. I dread such a thought.
Every day I watch as I pass by going to and returning from work, lunch—
time, and neither yesterday nor today saw the dog. I had in mind if I .
found a home for it, that I would have it examined, bathed, and get a lic-
ense, in return for its care by a responsible person. I had in mind
writing to the attorney in Boise, as to how I could get the dog to

their new shelter, or if there was any one that could come down for tha
dog. But now I am concerned as to its whereabouts, and will try to go to
the ‘ound.up in the hills, Saturday, to see if it is up there. Wonderai

if i was a dag lost dog, trying to find its way home. My heart goes out
to the poor animal, so anxious for a home. It had a collar when I first

 




.4
n “J'-

O -3-
fed it in the alley, which seemed tight, and I loosened it into another
hole, the last one, and When I walked over to the house to speak to Mrs.
Smith and the other lady, it was minus the collar. A tenant where I live,
saw the dog last week, which got into their car, and they told it to get
out of the car, and it did; it tried to get into my car when I first saw
it. Indications it was accustomed to a car (or truck) and the fact that it
remained in the area, indicates it was lost there, andamaiting the return
of its master. I phoned several likely prospects for a home, but none
could take it, however offer sympathy for the dog. In the Lost & Found
column in tonight's paper, there was a lost dog, resembling a "teddy
bear" however, gray and black, called "Willy". After trying for an hour
finally they answered the phone, and I learned they had found their dog.
I mentioned "Blackie" and that I was hoping it was their dog, and asked
if they could take this one and give it a home, which they could not do,
ﬂsaying their (a cross bet1een a dhow and Husky) dog kept them busy watche
ging its whereabouts.

fl want to answer Attorney Donaldson's letter, and hepe you have retained
1t, to return to me; also I wish to make a contribution for their new
fshelter.
:- 633 North Grant, Pocatello

Have you Mrs. Helen Reed Moffit_/on your list to receive the same com—
munications as you send me? She is an interested worker.

I mentioned the disgrace in Ravenna, Ohio, in my 5/26 letter to you. tr.
Paul K. Flechtner, 771 East Lake St., Ravenna, Ohio, has never ack-
nowledged my $3 contribution, although I have tracdd him asking him to
do so. The story was in “Popular Dogs“ January 1980 issuer—a free copy

I requested. I am sure the magazine would not publish the story xixxxx
telling of these dedicated persons,i% vywtu.ww¢vrnﬂé

Perhaps you would like to read Buzz of the Burg, 5/4 about additives,
and the dog pooulation of the country, which Nicholas Ifft printed in
“his columns May I have it returned to me for my file.~mA»' rangiJ)mﬂeﬂt
“[54 (4,94MA1MAAQ'W ,. ; ,5 u
I trust my letter to the senators for Idaho, and the previous letters
re Beagles meets with your approval, and I do so hope these animals
will be provided for and not forgotten. 400 take up quite an area.
How the FDA can be so heartless and thoughtless is beyond me, and I am
glad they have been exposed, and hope they will be forced to change
conditions for these poor dogs.

‘7“)

Sincerely yours

1,6 .
AS

 




Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
September 14, 1959

Mrs. Christine Stevens

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue

New York 22

RI . Yn

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

Thank you for your letter of August 21 enclosing the stamp from a
British air letter.

Tonight I have written a letter to all the senators and eongress-
men mentioned in your printed letter of August 26th.

I enclose a copy of the letter I wrote additionally to the
names shown thereon, and as I did not make sufficient to send
you a cOpy, am enclosing my file cOpy, which please return.

The letter to those mentioned in yours of August 26th was
somewhat similar, making a total of 20 letters.

I do hope that Governor Smylie will declare the week of Sept.
20 - 26 as Idaho Dog Week; then we can start our campaign in
full force.

I have gotten so far behind in my personal correspondence. There
are some cats in the alley that tisit the gang: garbage cans,
placed there for the apt. house. They run behind a heavy wire
fence. I put food just inside the fence, where there is a space
at the end. I hope they are getting the food, as I find the milk
and Puss In Boots cat food gone, or tipped over.

It is already 10:45 PM and I must go home and eat. We are having
a heavy in rain. Earlier it blew like a hurricane.

With best wishes,

Sincerely,

ﬁlm/5a: 3014M '
(Miss) Amelia Schell

I ran short of envelopes here,
so will have to address these last 6 tomorrow and mail them.

 




Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
September ll, 1959

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

I have your letter of August 28th, and have fallen behind in my correspond
ence, as I have been very busy preparing a write-up for distribution
through various media, for NATIONAL DOG WEEK. I have also written the
Governor of Idaho asking him to proclaim the week of Sept.20-26 as

Idaho Deg Week.

We have not gotten anywhere in our efforts to help those two dogs which
are still chained in their same places. The only time I can go up 2ax
past the place is a Saturday or Sunday; during the week it is already
dark when I leave the office after staying to do my personal typing.

I have obtained copies of the Idaho statute, and mailed them to the

other two ladies. Mrs. Moffitt is the ?resident of the Gem State Writers
Guild and which keeps her very busy. Mrs. Wilson's husband has developed
some sort of allergy over his hands and other parts of his body which the
doctors do not seem to be able to help and at the same time she says

he appears to be losing weight. Perhaps she will call at the police
station again, as she drives her car and is able to get around. Mrs.
Moffitt does not drive, and her husband uses f? for out of town work.

I will see what develOps. dam”

Perhaps you xiii would like to have a copy of what I have "dittoed"
for Dog Week, and%my letter to the Governor. I do so hope he will

proclaim Idaho Dog Week, so that we can have this as a talking point.

I think I mentioned Mrs. Moffitt wrote her letters in behalf o.,the wild
horses, and we were very gratified that the President signed;, into
law. I hOpe those cruel people will not be able to get around the law
and capture the horses, but without the former cruelty. I hope the law
meant they cannot capture them at all, without penalty.

Best wishes
Sincerely

W‘ KM

(Miss) Amelia Schell

 




Box 255, Pocetello, Idaho
September 10, 1959

Hon. Rotert E. Smylie
Governor of Idaho
Boise, Idaho

Honorable Sir:

As you probably know, NATIOEAL DOG WEEK 13 always
designated as the lest full week in September.

I am enclosing a cepy of an article which we, of
the Committee, prepose to send out through various channels.

You will note that NATIOEAL DOG MEEK ASSOCIATION
is a non-profit organization end wee founded in 1928 by the noted
editor and publisher of "Deg world" magazine. DOG IgEK has been
observed yearly since that time, as noted in additional enclosures.

Mrs. Helen Reed Moffitt and Hrs. W. Wilson and
myself, reSpeotfully ask if you would be good enough to endorse
"Dog week“ for Idaho and proclaim the full week of September 20
to 26, as "IDAHO DOG WEEK." We feel, also this will bring Idaho
to the attention of the National Headquarters of the organization,
and at the same time insure our success in bringing sttention to
our citizens of the welfare of “MAN'S 5E3? FRIEND."

We shall make our report to the National ASsocietion
with great pride, if you will Sign such a proclamation, signifying
that the people of Idaho contribute in a substantial degree to
the welfare of our animals and pets.

Beepectfully yours,

(Miss) Amelie Schell

 




Project Mercury Plague

Best Hope Is U.S. Will Put Man in Space Briefly by Late Next

EDITOR’S NOTE: There have been recent and persistent re- .5..::-. 55‘5 the missile; the escape mec‘;
ports that the Soviet Union plans an attempt to send a- man into E‘s , . ' separates from the capsule‘g’;
space in September or October. Here is a report on how the U.S. _ ' man - in - capsule floats
man-into—space program—Project Mercury—is shaping up. It is 5*??? space for its allotted perioi
based on talks with top men at the National Aeronautical and Space .. e _ minutes, four and a ha1f ,W,

Administration. 24 hours, while jets make

in the right direction.

Then a jet in the capsule
tom slows it down to re-en "
atmosphere. At 100,000 f
small parachute opens to ke
capsule from tumbling end}
end. At 10,000 feet, the big
chute opens. Meanwhile,
inum foil is released so thq
sule can be tracked by resc
dar squadrons.

By RAY CROMLEY
NEA Staff Correspondent
WASHINGTON (NEA)-—-With the troubles they’re having, the best
U.S. scientists expect is that an American will spend a brief five min-
ute-s in space some time late next summer. _ . ' . . .
If all goes well, the Astronaut Will be shot up 1n a ballistic orbit,
go about: 140 miles, and be parachuted down.

It won’t be until. the winter of
1951-52 that an American can be air shocks of missile blast-offs.
sent into OI'blt around the earth. The gadgets have proved sound

Even if things go right, th’“ in wind tunnels and in minor
make only three circuits, ten flights. But can they stand the =, ‘ .
dm” ““0 ““3 car’bbe’” - rugged Sim“ pmd‘td by At axial?ZrZa‘iZi’elisi‘itihii‘

In his four and a half hours c1r- las missﬂe takeoff?

 

 

. S . t’ t‘ h f' d the water for miles. A revfx'
cling the earth at 17’400 miles an . pace sc1en IS 5 . ave igure M is; . light begins turning. Severtii‘
hour, he’ll study the world 100 With paper and pencrl how to keep ~ -' -‘~ :~ -'

w .

miles below through a built-in these man-carrying. high speed IL B ' 2:15 bgsaiceajrtdhofrgrghiilggir:
perisgope .On command, .hell capsules from burning up when‘ before the Mercury capsule miles. ~
practice minor satelllte maneu- they hit the earths atmosphere. rachuting back from Tl t’ l _ - h
vers”—rock his capsule back and But they’re not sure their ideas comes 9:111 a man inside. Lia 1‘: a 01“ to go rig t
forth, make it face in different di- will work. space M , mauca y

rections. . For one, they’re going to ex- of a seven-foot man-carrying cap- {Erie fourthh rgajor proble 3‘
It won’t be until well into 1962. periment with coating the capsules sule on top of a 65-foot Atlas :1“ {mg out w 6338; man can (if),
at the earliest that an American with a special heavy layer de- missile. 1 in spaces Aetore atny I
will circle the earth a day and a signed to turn to gas when it The launch missile is fired. If lseven .uman S ronau s a __
. , __ - . _ owed into space a series of
mght—eat, sleep, stomp around heats leaving the 0313511195 and it misfires the capsule and escape full -nurtured s eciall i t 11.,
weightlessly in his tiny capsule— the” men intact. mechanism must automatically aleift Rhesus’mlgnkeyg 31:13 i
for 1. trips around the globe. The third probem is making the blast away from the missile, then anzeees will ave the wa
The 4 reason for these far-off complicated mechanisms work ev- separate in two actuating a small p _ p y.
dates that the space scientists ery time, as they mus-t inxspace. stabilizing parachute and setting1 ane ln'space,.the monkey
have-5%? ome thorny problems to Yet this man-in-space system is so off a cargo parachute to let the clnmpanze'ees Will be orderi
FIRST ASTRONAUT will wear solver: complicated something is almost man-in-capsule down genFIY; : by hght 53811315th press bu
a variation of this Navy flight Tiley’ Se got to find out if their certain to fail. Ifthe missile works, this IS what: do other tasks. By TVs pl
suit on his trip to space, but ex- lingual , 'ped space capsules—g Eventually there will be a 16- must happen automaticallyi 1“ the Space 0313511135: $11011“
tensive tests remain before be With {11 ‘ (“washed-out bottoms—1' foot escape mechanism on tOp of Sixtv to .80 miles up, the capsule-f entists Will watch the primal
dons it 501' launching. in bold gether in the terrific a three-foot parachute tube. on top escape mechanism separates tromtsee if space confuses their sw—

l
l
l
1
x
l
l
l

l

l

l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




V.

WELCOME BACK -— Idaho State College student William Lange, right, was welcomed back Tuesday
night to Colonial Hall by fellow students and Professor and Mrs. Pierre Pulling. Lange was lost for
two days in Idaho’s primitive area, after tracking a deer for three miles Saturday afternoon. He

' said he wandered around in the woods for more than a day before seeing a signpost nearby. Think-
ing it would direct him to civilization he fought his way through the brush. The sign admonished him
to “Stick to Forest Trails,” Lange said. Here, Lange and Pulling trade knowledge of guns as Pulling
demonstrates one of his pet deer rifles. Lange lived on two squirrels he shot with his rifle. »

 

 

 




Box 255, $ooatello,
Jarunsry 11%,

Dear Mrs. etevens,

You have been interesteo in the rabbit drives. ”r Moffitt{37
phoned me on Saturday night telling me about al ms noticesg
published in the Post Register, Idaho Falls. ' *

Nothing appeared in the Pocetello papers.

She thought of calling on ministers in an effort to put a step
to this horrible cruelty.

In spite of the protests from the eastern states mentioned in
the announcements and reports, the Sponsors went right on with
their "club-swinging.“

cepy of
Thank you for your/letter of January 6 to Commissioner Emmett
Spraker concerning construction of new stables at the fair
grounds. I shall be very much interested to learn how the
Commissioner mikkxxssixxx replies.

Mrs. Moffitt wrote a letter of protest to Mr. Goooh.

It would appear that the peeple who wrote their protests from
the eastern states is an indication that they are more humane than
in those states farther west.

It will interest me very much to learn how the humane societies
I have addressed willhandle the matter.

I communicated your message of praise to my supervisor, in
connection with breaking the necks of fishes rather than
allowing them to suffocate after being caught.

My Christmas oar~ ought zany expressions of praise and
pleasure, and I ~' to thank you for your Kind comment.

With best wishes, and happy New Year to you and yours.

Very sincerely yours,
.‘ r \ ("j ,
" f 3‘ i / ‘ n " ’ ?
LON/L L (K— g) I‘L— («/U:(/

1“

Amelia sohell

 




MTSS. Ch? :tih
Society 2or A11
745 ~ 5th Avehug
New York 22 ,

encloee for your pr2lhqa. 1etter from Thoma s J.
deﬁed July ' nn Con I ,owcu Loner

A

ﬁate Journal, tellln out Velma
oieturee she to 0k ; WQSﬁlnilOP
The poor ho “ I. the left
right

I .. radio and

en the :" to receid . '

1“SORS.W' up for these
he will Mnot condone 2 cruelty. :2 bleeding at

she animal muet be from K okeh elood Veee‘ s in the

in the heed.

‘J4

I
_.‘
’a.

(D O
B
H
DJ

‘14
0‘4
3“~

:12 SO
I

m
‘S

1...}. '34. 5
, 5.}

.regnsrw
(3U3W}*%
J”. (:1

.1
“.4 1...:

eJo

m
dgne
e d(b

$13

W

{D

( ‘5) {3.) 0"

d

{D

‘D‘qsﬁj’ﬂf

CC
0

m

"'3
;..
I~J

8111
_' ,KC“

Idaho
clipping of the Buzz of tine Eurc:, by Ihz/ State Journal
ahout bird watching. This lat ter you keep, as you may
to the same eereon to Whom you Sent a previous clipping

to ﬁhe two dogs, here in Eooetello. I
Perry Swigher of the THEQTWOUhiJJD &

.. . er to be ireertee in their pe pere concerning
cruelty I ‘Iu hope that t . cruel-minded persons might take note, and
when « - ize they e.Pe b I watched and reeponsible for their enim

‘ ‘ ' their hays. , . one would heve to be careful how such
he worded, a e sefegue roeo from erIy pose eible lawsuit,
Is might inil ct, in retaliation. Any SUEEGStiGﬂS
offer will he greatly appreciated.
ihfere‘tee to leerh the outcome of the hee Hr mg on H.B.
be ethey have success fully defeated the emelareLt Su§588t€d
at of Interior er d Agriculture.

with heek wishes, I am

yours,
2, 55w: 5ch , _. wind C
( His 1 Amelia Sohell

I

 




292,1 underst9nd Mrs. wilson's sister, a Miss Soholl, from California, has
wnztten to the American Humane Assoc.
DenJer 91% :9, returned to her 5 ?Ocatellg’ Idaho

anti will contact the

her city.

I am enclosing copy of my letter, o Chefs rmeu Geller. It was gratifyu
ing news to learn of the m:2jor 11901.:’ that hes been made.

I have written to the Clerk of the Jud

1 ry COHlitt r a print
of tte testimony presented. deﬂexe the h ‘

ia
811" ling (.111 JUN 6311.71".

C
e 1

11

You will he ’2ﬁt.rs“n: 3 know :he t r3. helen :eed Moffi: t, the lady who
has 9131,9919~ 2o . u see what an be done for ﬁ2e two lovely dogs per~
mitted to remain in H” buriiin:g: 0hot sun all day long a when she received
your leaflets (I do not the w throug: what at urce, as I h9ve nly just become
acquainted with her) angingx on tim ﬂhumane leuch ;er bill, . tweed on

the stop of 19991 sheetsx site sheets, what it 999 about, w12 went out with
them and suoo ended in getting 300 signatures urging the pa me of the bill.

when I saw 9996 in “ he Paper about ti ' "E”“cllﬁht & Syringe" “Peed 301d
out, and th9t oM ore were being taken f0 2” her supply,(her name was
mentioned as a co-sponsor) I phoned her my '"1 p a ’ he E03 on he
subject of our pets and she told me that her 12a n ' « T' 30 y99re Glﬂ’

and she cried herself sick when she passed awn

She is a writer, en6 is very active : 9 ‘, “c a: I showed
her XEMXX your 1’*eit lette of July 39-; 3:“ :9: 232 she receives the
same litecetire £KQMXXEKX with yotzr naee ;g22;,*.: a the bottom.

Cisfternoon 1»:e ent up to see the t' a : had been up twice on
Xhevxx once in Othe morning and NJ we'd aoout 5PM; they MEXEX
tlie house shich is on a leeer
hen the house. Iheo J went there yesterdag aftocnoon, about 5PM
lrly man and a younger woman came out and sat in the shade of the
n the nice cool, green lawn. The poor dogs looked for some sign of
on from them, but received none. They then lay down, no doubt eX~
rom the sun beating down on their heads, in a tiny bit of shade
d by the doghous:, a.n6 the brown deg, lay in the l ttle shade afforded
T ascline- drum-doghouse . Mrs. Moffitt told me when she went with Mrs.
Wilson on Sunday July 29th, they turned the white doghouse eroznd, so that
the opening would face the north, as with it facing the .outh the sun beat at
the enur inoe, all day long. 6e teve devised a slam — to phone, and if there
is an answer 1J9 arhe some excuse about "wrong number" or ask for "Gertrude”
anq this tells us if they are home. If no one had been home yesterday, we
would have gone directly to the trough to see if it contained water. Tt we
difficult to determine this, from where we stood; we remained on a back road
about 175 ft. from the house, talking, and watching. he thought if they had
been contacted by the Boise Society, or this Mr. Russel decree 's brother had
told him of the convernetion Mrs. Wilson had with him the night thiinc we
were field repres sentatiies and take better care of their ogs, if hey were
sing +tc396 is remarks as to how they sat in th3 shade, the emselves, and
gave 12.0 th ought to their faithful animals.
Yesterday was ,he first time I had the pie asure of zme .; her personally.
About 2 weeks 51 she was held ut hy a eunnan the ac ' a cared in the

%Efly Erie was zeturniug scout 9:’5TI from the movies, ‘ . ' she was not
9f .

{I} of“ CC!

<1

wsiocbob’cutxstm
CHOU] (D0

mzid:fuahutoim
HDSL'OS

9

_ "'0 1 - ‘r ‘ f“ , A
raid. I believe s-e old me she wrote to th- redhers hated

in
id not “2cm how to trees ‘ - we sat there
ours, XX Amelia gcnell

y CLWuJQ~ ’g dﬂ;ﬁﬂ

,

1 ‘ J“? — ‘ .. 7 7 ,."'
behalf of the m ,9 horses. we a
in the car. ‘GWV sincerely y

 




famﬂ 3’ .28 1969

‘x .....

3212,”? hi. of‘lmwl,

your

1 Lm*LﬁLf3 t0 have been S0 slow to reply to
Laterg Lad return th analosed items which you
“”2""re 0L activity for the wild

_L- “f T?! s We
5:72.22: 2': “1 1““2 1’1 -
(it? Jutkﬁu‘u‘. .2. v3.5: 9 .5..-. 2.2.1.2324 l .2. ugh-42¢.

Larvr bill, they were *Lgnordrljy buri2d.

I. *

I‘L ve you oktLLveL 30232 n to proviée LLL L032

I

with Ld9622 ue LELLGL 2.1L. « fooﬂ ? OIL mi ‘Lly, the

"a 2 2f“ .1 21“.? Q .-
luCaL ELLIUC

at

y C -L
2‘ (“"722 132
#2.. .v‘ V ....1\J

Lmnﬂle ~ Lhig especially in
222 22M i232 :2 ‘5: 2:22 L2 me 2200161137. 12;

3.3.1.. L

' ’3': n’\ “T r. d- ’ t‘- 7; . .“\ . - , . L. ‘--2 _ ~ 2. a ‘n‘ .g-.: ». ;. .. 1 i.
- ’ , ' 2 ‘. } v. ( A. ‘ 2 . ' 2 .1 ‘ ’
L2 '5... - ' . p . .. '2 - (LL 2.1.23 ’57,? Z .3 UL. 2:44.}. L2 i“? 3.13.

iig 1.1;”??? ;:lilxr TDC'J:J*1J“£.-LV

’3? ' 4"" “2'1 “‘1 i' 1“”? “"5 "’9'“ r' "J' J " 5 ' 2 . n. ”5"... .L '.‘L
“22.19213. ball; 2;.» WV ° ~27? 2.2.2 ‘ 2.- .. .‘..‘LQK}LE.2-ﬂ

Lhe omne rs of €39 anirlals;
er Lhe polio Leman tells
“'22 '23:? " " Lsiuus 0.; the anti-«0111231553

0.2. .\
‘22- u. unv- .1}: .LC- ~ '«‘-’§ . “l. ~L “
.223 LLLLLLV = uluﬁriﬁ3.§r0V1de

a...
2,... .L’

:1 ‘ "2
lwk s)iJ J

'r‘ -

r‘, —\A x (“I .- .LZNI» a.
*JOCb 2:.) o in 22.21222;
232223232 222‘" 2;: 0221p}. 12;: s

“2.2- w.
2: <2

- ’ -“ 72'" (a "
:3 0U. 3.2322";- 2,2123

“IVE: £;f "f”l’x ‘f‘ "5 ""14“" ““3 “D ‘2‘- " “- ‘2". "9‘ ‘ 5"“ ~ a - ‘2», 7‘ s. .2 ‘3 ‘ --
ML} Iii 7.5.2:,“ uu MEL-J 0.3.4.3 LL21» (3011.1. 22 3.4. Iitjiizi 16:. .25. .1131

2.

LLQ Qqﬁuél “Slice QIIicer :3 QLlQ Dc abim + Luaule
LLiL eLse wiZLauL brjlwigg t to courﬁ

:you write to LLL Sécre*”ry
of Lte Ia IL? @3222 .2 2 GL‘ IQaho anQ LsL him t0 LenQ yea
a cu any of ELL iﬁahe anti~eruelty statuta. Iheg, if

Li}

neoerq Lry, 3am can LLGW it to year local police chief

Hull
and 2.2%: him to enIorce the law.
Eb“ 2:2 23 Vv’iiﬁhilg .
Sime9rely,

 




Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
August 2a, 1959

Mrs. Christine Stevens,

Society for Arnmal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue

New York 22, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

I was very glad to read in the paper about the passage of H. 3.2725;
also to be informed by Gracie Pfost, our Congresswoman, and Hamer
Budge as per their letters attached, which kindly return to me for
my file.

I have acknowledged Gracie Pfost's letter, and will also acknowledge
Hamer Budge's.

I enclose a cOpy of the letter to Senator Eastland, and the two Idaho
Senators, which you may retain for your files.

I wrote Chairman Geller on August 3rd, and after my envelope to you was
sealed I found an extra copy which led me to believe that I failed to
enclose a copy I intended for you to have, and do so now, as I have my
file copy.

On August 21 I wrote Mrs. Velma B. Johnston, Wadsworth, Nevada, prais~
ing and thanking her for her wonderful work and courage, and how
gratifying it is to know that there are ether humane individuals who
act, when they are shocked into indignant resentment of cruelty, and
by their cooperation help in reducing it.

Mrs. Helen Reed hoffitt, President of the Authors‘ Build, with whom

I became acquainted recently upon making inquiry about "Starlight

& Syringa", in the compilation of which she was co~Sponsor, I have
learned ﬁhxtxxﬂe was active in the humane slaughter bill — so we were
both working, unbeknown to each other, for the same cause. She told
me that she called theiﬂeigart Packing plant on the phone, one day, and
the man laughed at her, as though humane slaughtering was not impor-
tant. While the American Humane Society, Denver state Zweigart‘s
slaughter humanely, she is of a contrary opinion. It might be well
for one of the Societies to call on Zweigart's to make sure they are
using humane methods.

With best wishes as always, I am
Very sincerely yours,

(Miss) Amelia Schell

 




Box 2555 Pooetello, Iﬂeho
JUly 29: 1959

hrgrﬁereld M. Rogers

Bireotor of Fiele wept.,

The emerioen Humane eeeooietion
Bgé Fenneylvenie’mt.,

Eehver 3, Colorado

wherﬁemene Society of ﬂew York
313 ﬂeet 58th Street

New York 22, N. Y. ﬂemq/
Hrs. Chrietine Stevene, ’x’ﬂ
30o. for Animal'eroteotive Legislation
:14!» 5th. Avenue, New York 22. , lei. Y.

Dear Frienee;

Lest week e humane leay told me of e case of wilful and extreme cruelty
over e period of about two weeks, inflicted upon two beautiful dogs, one

a helmer end the other brown, with spots, of the hunting dog type. They
were eheined, epert from the houee, out in a dirt lot, in the broiling Bun,
day in.ene day out, with no orinking water, by their meeter, who had gone
to Utah on e fishing trip. She contacted another humane friend, and they
went to the premieee with drinking water and relocated their position to a
more suitable spot. Tonight, one of the ladies phoned me and asked xiii
how we can go about proeeetting this man without jeopardy to ourselvee and
property. 3he told me the poor animals were so happy that they unrestratnp
edly Jumped upon my friends (to the extent of their receiving scratches
aha their liebe eerkeo by their wagging tails beeping against them) so
deeperete were they end greteful for a orink of water.

;-r
The owner and offender is Rueeel George, listed in the Pooetello phone
book, North of Pooetello (actually the oity of Alameda, in driving there,
but oomeidereﬁ e pert of @ooetello). Hie phone is (Coder) CE 2~5509. Th.
premieee, a white house, oen.be looeted aoroee the street from Patton e
Linton, contractors, No. 3&8 Weet Cedar (weet of hole Lino head) in Alee
eeﬁe. Theee leoiee notiooa e dog house on this dirt plot of ground, which
ie not large enough for either dog; eleo e large gasoline drum. intended
for e ﬂog house, but which is e broiling hot oven to the touch of their
hende. On Friday, July 17th, they saw this beautiful helmer lying on its
‘beok, tongue he ﬂing out, and legs stiffened in.the air, as though it were
oeee. This Rueeel George‘s brother (a neighbor in of one of the iediee}waa
suppoeed to teke core of the doge during his eheenoe. It.ie evident he
wee uhoonoerngd ebout his brother's animals. when these leoies spoke to
him, he was abusive ena profane in his lenguege and mode the eonteeptuoue
remark that they were his brother‘s doge,thet he peid for them, ene it was
no ens elee'e business. Russel George has now returned, but hes not made
any visible effort to take eny'better oere of his dogs in that they are
still left out in the hot sun with no shade whatsoever.

Theee 1eﬁiee contacted Mr. Perry Swisher, publisher of Intereountein e
Alameda Enterprise, e weekly newspaper, who put thee intouoh with me.They _
reported the oonﬂition to the roundmester, Moe Loren.Kingsforé (located ”

 




-2-

at the City bolice Steticn in Fecetellc) whe etetee he is well aware 0*
the eituetien, but unable to eat, and that theme leﬂies (and I believe
other neighbors) wenlﬁ have be sneer out e warrant egeinet thie cruel
men. Ccneidering the type of human we would have to complain against,
naturally we are all fearful of the coneequencee; he Wﬂulﬂ be 3: ea
cruel in rotelietien; else these brothers have Juvenile children, of
the rowdy elemenz, whe wculd be relentleee in prectiees cf vendeliem,
and each one 0? ue would suffer at their bends.

Therefore, we are appealing to the humane societies, of which I an: em
a member, in our determination he heve relief brought te these poor
innocent animals, and the owner given to underetena, in definite terms,
whet 1e expectea of him.

Oﬁe cf the ladies will phone the Idaho Humane Society at Boise in the
morning to rcpcrt this case, this being the only nearby Ecciety we knew
of, end we hcpe e repreeentetive will be dispatched to investigate, er
this man contacted. we feel the authority of e powerful humane ecciety
will be able to bring this cruel man to Justice, without here to any
of its members, whereas we, es indiviéuale, would place ourselves and
prcperty in jecperay, in endeevcring.te prosecute this low, cruel, type
of rcwﬁy'persen.

Such cruelty ehoula net go unpunished, and it will continue if something
is not done to put a step to it; enﬂ we hcpe these lovely animals will

be protected by the lee, before they die from this inhumane treatment.

Very sincerely yours,

/ e 5;? @647 x:
05% /~ X"

(Else) Amelia Schell

 




1
(:11
.u
T
J

1
00
sﬂlo ,

“If M .~"v
. .' .L e

O

‘N

.1

\
“-

n01
J".
k,

I‘\,}
o
.3,

a 1" V

V
: “I"? ”P
.1.

(w 1,“
x“; I

.‘j

rwJ‘"
5:)" L .
+74
v1.1.

0
—,
v.1.

I; i

I; ‘
1
Z"
Ch
...\ rv‘
O

.‘3
...
.5;

‘9t

‘1',”
umﬁ

fer An;
yr

A I
..L~
«v

{3*
-;rn1na

m
I)
;ve

"I
L
1V6
Ff
L:
UB3
5.0

A
\~.
K J

n
5:1. 1’

U . '

’.,,_4' '

mal

- .4,

yo
1..an
3hﬁmtow7éhﬁhaﬂnaf-nqi

Jam . m.
. ,7“. ,I A

I
;01

L

f

f“
T.‘

1.34 7", 7
i

4-
L;

°" ’5‘
v
0 11C) 5 (3;:
SO
1
r
Of JL.
VGTI
Q }

W 1

~/

‘3
. J»-
]?O L! .
:e
C}
1
’1

e
d
3

I

at
Vi o
1

ctl

OD
1 V

fyin

if

11 10,
dov
Lﬁké

101
P
.0.

e
t
, 18d
Gaunty J.
1w
P

‘\ .

1
u

L
J—

ix.
(1 mi»
PO

w,“

Le
Boon
t!

C

1
"“23
Lu

(“P
E;
3
N ‘Tﬁ
-\
"arhef.
L

(X
1‘1.

{'3

M «Him! ‘ .
Imw “6 S
t n , H. TL TL

*2
L
"t
f

'-t

(“(3')
u)\j

W

.I m
. 1-
U
,3;

{WV
.QT.

U

ad
I h;

(:5, _
(’31
" ti AKA.

, ,1“
A:

1tion

ﬂé

ﬂ
(‘2‘
\d

v
r t

(g
(:7

E?

L
:1
L .L!

‘
. *‘T‘. .5.) :

“we

v
L
f T. m
a
r
v,

act
. \' ‘ i

}.

1

self—

6
O!
1“

.U..'

$,

,A
;ﬂ

ttle
:3 ,a3 93?

e
,hone direc

"‘3

I

7,, a
C? :
L I

.z
'.\

‘ TL v
tax

“7"1
H

.. '1
n 3019
ED
m 4-
‘ LI U
"\7
U
.C‘
10?

yOL

J...) .

eXplarw
1’!
$1
I

~+

1.
.1».--

Obs!
3:
ii

Dry 9
1.01”;

10

we“
I;%W¢‘
QEWB

U‘ Mm.
S “1.1%
H S
WMSc
any

‘

vﬁur
4. I
b

-

E135

.17,

r ,‘

“2.2
t

H;
-9

W
O

‘1‘ 4“
IL“

. J:
.
5

files.
5h0~
LO

‘5 .

.._.1
Q
t
00
'3

Q U:
Gn+
TL THL, 11L

. .\ TL

3 m:

a

in

L

\ ‘7"1

1 J.

' .. :53 1,

=8
T
\

I
bf
n

O
rad

r1—

1..
.\V

m m,

TL .Il

W1
ve
ie

you
v*i:*

sh

I

is the
E

 




   

           
     
      
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
     
   
   
   
 

sun dragging. m,

l A year after the big «push to
deal the Fort Hall Indians into
the economic growth of the area,
no real claim of progress can be
made.

An agency employe's comment:
“Sure, we're doing just fine. Five
years ago we had two Indian
policemen. Now we have five In-
dian policemen and Senator Church
can help to get a jail."

Tribal hopes rose over a fa rm
project for some Sections in the
Gibson or northern district. and
the Shoshone-Banno‘cks went so
far as to arrange with the Uni-
versity of Idaho extension senvn’ce
to put the project together for
them. But, right or wrong as to
practicality, the Indian Service de-
creed that five of the seven should
be put up for lea-Se—whiCh means

 

' more farming of Indian land by
whites with Indians receiving
lease money .rat-her than working
the land, an abiding curse of the
Fort Hall economy.

Decimation of the I‘nd-ians’ ns~
sociation herd has not been remeu
died. The 11,000 head of a dozen
years ago have dwindled to [fewer
than 3,000 cattle, for a range ca-
pable of supporting perhaps 20,000
head. When control of sales was
removed most of the association
families, always in need of quick
,‘cash, sold off their stock piecemeal.
Only cu re would to be a private
contra-ct between the association
and beef buyers. reimposing pro-
hibitions on sale of range animals.

Encouraging signs are that [n-
d-ians have caught the attention
of Idaho's congressional delegation,
the governor's office and the com-
munities bordering the reservation,
and that among themselves the In-
dians are no longer divided as to
whether to act but only on which
actions to take. Meantime there’s
no hiding the fact that lack of
purposeful employment for hun.
dreds 01’ Indians continues to i‘es-
ter serious law enforcement, health
and education problems. Except
the lowest grades, a majority of
the Indian children are still not
regularly attending school.

 

 




 

_ under holes are drying up. The area has had only .32 of
“Deer, javelina (wild pig) and birds are crowding the few

remaining x: , . ' E‘ucson, game warden said. “It is ettin critical. If fire
‘7 . V O ’ ‘
breaks 01:51; ' .23. over areas W111 be doomed.” As soon as m ht falls desert
9

animals f1o2’ ‘4 arses of water, such as the one shown above. (AP Wirephoto)

 

 




~ﬁfiunexx July 2, 1959 - Memo for hrs; Stevens

I thought I would tell you that I have learned recently thatthe game
warden also works with the Railroad, here. Hence I would not wish
anything I have written to be transmitted to him. Inaemrot ee he is
in another department, I am not very well acquainted w5th him, except
to bid the time of day. He xxx does note ppear to he a friehdly type
of man, and will avoid greeting me if he possibly can. Peihape he is
somewhat on the surly side, but I call this to your attention to
avoid my getting into complications or involvemehts, here at my work.
His name is Clyde Sehoonover.

 




 

   
  
  
    
  
  
  
     
  

,..._.-1 ,., .. -__,g fa . .i. .r. . f, ( .. .. _ ., .. . x ‘ x a
. y?gﬂu ﬁuytgﬁiﬁggm ﬁLEﬁCﬁad $0 Vﬁybill raga 28 haga.

v r Q “E .N g": * , _ My - 1 “_ I ‘3' _ ,i ,V‘ I: "n K V ‘ . W V ”‘7 ‘ ‘
3'" 722.1”??? tit"? £31} t-i.z€,‘1“‘.if§37f {fit .. . 7 . 7‘” 123%: 73.2% If; \ 7:53 . , éﬁﬁCQUEt

N

77 M77 7 7w "”. 4% 7‘ ‘7‘ "77‘7““ "'9 7‘ ’2'“ ‘§ w: 1'8»: 1:1 4"; f“ “ ., A. ». .«-._ c? "'2 ..--. .3! 3‘
7r ,' t L H J. .. 3 .13 ﬁg; 5a. 1.. 1,, :7 3.11. is» 5 {,3 haf l1 ,‘é‘ gd’ag—‘ngé. 52% .

Car 77777i”%~ E? in ;£3ma.Ju13 3 iumﬁz receigt

ﬁﬁiﬁﬂréf¥777nsé. Talay, 'gwm;t. ?§ ﬁdllﬁﬁgﬁS, £319 ﬂ :;%.§1- tn
'1.“ 7? ‘f '
v.3 '_ ,

,_, : .. _.,_ A r“ J ’ ,3. ‘1:
A 72.} in- 70:37-— ‘w: . ~ 75.: come:

1'g ~‘,'

. 3
‘_..._.-'ww~w MK.- N.

u

{“2 )3”: 5‘1; H r- ’

‘. feeﬁ accaunt my? gas mare than 13 haurm ﬂnﬁ Hamid not make

0..

ﬂﬁﬁﬁ fﬁaé 701%? withiﬂ $4 hwurg. ﬁaloaﬁ ? ﬁx 5th anﬁ § 3%.

r\

   

a~a$7

 

 

DRIVAQE & CONFIDENTIAL * Mrs. Christine Stevens

 




. “A; v‘ ..

l , 5-.“ C.“ b .1 F‘. 4”" ~ )"
L31: aziioer,

?71.1*4w1 m *auebe?*

, 1"" 4

1.33 g”? .I-r‘ («f «.1 i. .
4. y ,. : my 1. ~.,:

_ if}; V :7. :3 571‘
I 1 $- C: 13“ ~ A I“

5: m
13....)

A

\ in}(“¢.t~ ’5‘ A > ,
' 'J 'w?‘-i‘;\.»-13L.4.

*-v

a
4‘,

‘1$W@ﬁ‘

.J

a” ‘ . .. 4-. .5’ M
t 1. ‘3 .., § " ' '1 1" i l r: , uh
WI H31 .1 b '9 . C" . g:- Lani- .5

ﬁcoouet of

, {m ' . ff
" .r

“{N 3. If". m
,. , .L 5;- W31"

ire. Stevens - $rivate and confidential. Confined w/o
rest beyond the statutory

proper feed, water and
period provided by the Act of June 29, 1906

(28 Hour Law).

 




    

   

333333133 3 3333 13, 3339
333 3. 3. 331333 « ﬁ31t 3333‘

3333 3333.6315, 33333 $33 33, 1359, 333333333
31333 :3. 3151?~56, 333 333333333 333 33333 3313 333333333
33333 3333 33 333 33333 333333 33 3 r 3“ 31317, 33313333 t3
3333 333 T331333:

3nv3vtiwﬁt333 33331333 3333 33333 13 33r3 33 33333
33r3 333333333 by 333 333 333 333333 tham3ju3t ﬁrlwr t3 dew

333 33331tien. €333

 

3333333 from “13333k3 333 331 3333 33 3

333333 3. 3. 333333, 333 3333133 3 13333t 1333 3333t3113,

 

3333333 33333 333 33'33333 33331333 333 33 6333331333 33t33

 

3333333 ”333t3313, 333 333333t33 G. 3. 33333333r, 333 h333133

33333333 333t 3f "33333313 3333333 333t 33 313 33t 3333333
333,33 3333 3::3: 3; 3, :3:: *3 313:? 133131" 3,33 :32" 33.}? £33. ’33? ’31: 2133* 3231‘

331333333 333E 33333 3333 3333 33333. 3333333, 33 313 33t
3333 3333333333 3? 3333 1331v13331 33?.

1333331332_3a

 

33113 t3 33V3163 any 3333331~3eeurrenaa

3:!
’1

.3333133 33333 33313 3333 333tr133333 ta 3313 333th 1333.

 

3tﬁ.

1133

Confid33tialwﬁrs.Qhristine Steveﬂg




truck 00

. 71/2-
.\ i

7 C- t1”

x
4
J

“a

J
' x

n

L

QY‘
a. 4"
(TWO

1 "_

5" H 1
“ 3

'2

1.

(a ,6” r
N.

‘m;

'7.
.1”

:2):
j‘ :

mice

36:? Li)

\

1.

"i
y...-

 




April 11: 53‘ 1959

11111 111111 Sahel].
Box 255
P01111110, Ihaha

D1313 N*13 “one 1,

 Th11k yen fe3‘yenr 1901 1111131. I have been away and am juﬁt nae
replying 10 accumul1ted mail. -

3‘11 1111113 to your queetien about what the Seciety is 1313331211 on
nee, 31 131 1111111 11 0111113 n1eﬁmer1 01 a 11111 humane 8111113111? 111
in u13h151n. 193 yea? 11:3311111”, I {mz*lese 1 ceny af 1 111113 we have
just 1111 131. if vwnvkevw 1311111 33 I enizhn 3he 131 11,1323111, porhepa
311*111131111xnzﬂehg *~

Ch 131 115“"11 11ve1,3e 1:1 111103711“ the 1113 13013611 ; th1 131d
herse and 11.3318. E03 1133 1233“ 11113, i 13 1131 1 row" 0f 1he 1131
1110*wa:1ev 1:1131 11 111 11131] 131 111111111 1111b 1111 11011 the
neeﬁ 133 1111 11311111111.‘ 21 yea 1_113 1111 10 111p '71“ 111.. T‘wauld
1111111 11‘1 301 13111 10 1he Ham. Cmaanuel C11111* , 111113 1 “
Jﬁd”ei133 meauaee, Cease 011111 11111111, 111113311123,
him 10 10 1111111111 pemer 11 311111 1 ihvarable reper1 il‘fﬁ
on this 1111. ‘ '

3 .. _ 1., ..¢..' J." .1. . ." .. ."- 'I «L .. v-.~ ' a
13*e ;fUN 1 131ee_3111 11 3113 011 name, 101 11 1313 me;

a,
(5:11.32 .31”... .4”; "Q1143 .
110.5 a. 8; .L 30:?! 3. J‘s/231,1?) Q

, Ie 131313 to your Question we}? the 101131511 mv 111311 311111111, 11,
13 £13131 C 11133 Cambriége 331111111j'11 ﬁngL {3. bh£ 1m‘jue1 gone heck
fOP 1-he 1131 “”3“ - . 3.

3 11 111313111 3113 1311113 the 3131311 11 animalg in 13~3311_very much.

~ With 311131 11 your 1111 with the 11113 h133ﬂeuue men, 3100113" 11; 0111111
with 1 rifle is 11 excellent humane ne1hed, bu1 163113 3131 end sheep is .
. 13111, 311111 thej'heve been rendered ineeneiblﬁ p319? to the sticking. 'This
_can be dune 13 11111111 with either a 11311ve bew 1111101 or ordinary firearms,
by anesthetiaing the ‘with carbon 1111111 11 is dene by 303111 1 and others,
_ er'hy 1111131311 11111113. ;1111heee 1111111 have new b11111130vee by the
Secretary of 11316111133. he Other metmeée have been annrev d3. ﬁn1111 they
change 11 ene 11’ these 11111013, the pecker-e you 13111 3:2. 121 (311131101 51.13. to the
31131321112113 . E ‘ '

3111 111111,

Sin 1113er ,

Secretary-131111312! '

 




Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
February 27, 1959

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

Sunday, the 22nd, I attended the showing of the new addition to the
Zweigert Bannock Brand packing house. There were a number of new
refrigerator rooms, where p the carcasses of animals were hanging —
those of pigs and steers marked with the label of the source through
which they secured them - some were secured at the auction rooms here;

others from individual ranches.

I was able to Speak, alone, to the man in the slaughtering room, and
showed him your list of prices, which you sent to me at the time we were
working for the humane slaughter bill. He stated that he knew of the
Gaptive Bolt Pistol; also the Remington stunner, but these were more
modern than the equipment they have, and he believes that theirs is best
for their purpose, after trying many kinds; that some shoot the animals
with a pistol and miss. They use the rifle, and each animal comes in
the door one at a time. I did not know that the animal looks at a bright
light, hence does not move its head from side to side. I could see a
platform against the wall, where the man stood and the doors through
which each animal came separately, into this square compartment.
he is shot, a door on the Opposite side of where the man stands, I ..-.
and the animal falls out; another man hoists it up --I think he skins it
first; and then it is hoisted up. He said that they stick the hogs,
in the jugular vein in the throat and the hog is the only animal that
squeals; the lamb never makes a sound; also it is the tendency for the
animal to lurch backwards (whereas man lurches forward) before it falls.
I asked about the possibility of the animal not being dead. He stated
that they could not afford not to have them dead, as the animal would
run around in the big room, and probably kill the men working there; and
they have another door at the far end open--so he has to make sure that
the animal is dead. He said that the jugular vein is very small, and
crosses right at the throat. He also stated that from time to time
representatives of the Humane Society have called upon them to see their
equipment, and they always have the government inspectors there. The day
before I was talking to a friend of mine who introduced Mr. Chas.
PZweigart to me, and I told him, jokingly, that it was just a good thing
9 I met him, as I was coming to the packing plant to see if they slaughter
humanely, and glad to have the opportunity to speak to him beﬁorehand. '5
\ésHe stated that if the hogs are not dead before they are put in the vat,
the meat becomes prickly like goose skin, and they are unable to use it--
I; so it is incumbent upon them to do the slaughtering in the proper manner,
otherwise it results in a loss to them.He stated that they have, I believe
a men working in the slaughtering room, ﬁg inasmuch as they slaughter an
animal at a time, it is quite different w are they are on a long line and
hammer each one as it passes. The slaughterer told me that he has been
slaughtering for (I think he said) 30 years. He ventured to mention that
possibly on the ranches, the cattle are not killed in a humane manner-~these,
might be the exceptions, but he thinks they slaughter them humanely. I told '
him that I did so hope it was true, as I belonged to your Society and other
humane societies in the prevention of cruelty to animals.
Last night, about 9:15 PM, in leaving the office, where I was using the

, 1Office typewriter to write my personal letters, I passed a station truck
Rae 'rVLzKZ‘L {hid 6v [coma/Vac w’we(y (LL/ (if) Qr’bj‘f VVL’t’aC 01“» Lat/’15 6/ /Uv¢!.ét Z‘ ”Z: Z/J .944sz Cathy.
M W/’ W\£ UVZLHA.’ wa\ 'r’x 74ft: {4171’ Viv", ‘:“7 ”WM. ...— 741’4’ 3 Ld/ix XL)“ u;<€p'

 




    
     

~ I

-2...
(correctly Speaking, I believe they are termgd platform trucks) on one end
of which was a huge pile of sacked mail, andathe part with the shaft for
pulling it were several boxes of baby chicks; They pile one on top of the
other~~they are the boxes with the holes in. Heavy cardboard cartons. They
were chattering loudly, and I went over to them, and felt the outssde of the
box, which appeared to be cold. I went inside and told the man in charge
about them being there, that I thought 23xwa there was a sharp wind blowing,
probably it could get in through the holes in the box, and that is what they
were chattering about-~they were cold. Bight where I was talking to him
themexwasxaxz in the big baggage room, there was a box of the baby chicks.
He told me that they do not mind the cold, and sometimes it gets too
warm in the baggage room for them. However, I mentioned these were not
making any noise, whereas these on the outside were, that I just thought I
would mention it to him. He also stated that they huddle together and keep
warm, among themselves. I asked whatx how long they would be on the plat—
form, and he said he did not know where they were going, nor what train
they would go on. Then he said to the other man (probably called Mail
kiler) - or Mail Handler - "You'd better go and bring those baby chicks
in from the platform, it might be too cold for them." Then thanked me,
calling me Honey Bunch. I also mentioned that if anything happened to them,
from being eXposed, pxmkak2xx with some kind of chick disease, they would
have a claim, so it might be better if the protection was better for them
to bring them in rather than for them to be exposed. The other men who was
pulling the trucks of mail out on the platform did not appear to like my
interference, as he ignored me. ”hen I got home I phoned the weather
Bureau and the man told me the temperature then, about 9:25gwas 3“ degrees
and it would probably drop down to about 25 by early morning. I thought
if the chicks were not going to be put in the baggage car by, say lOPM,or
even as late as 2 AM, that would be too long-ubut, as I mentioned, he did
not know where they were going, or on what train; andthen they might have
been there, already, 10 or 15 mins. up to that time. Perhaps the bright
platform light would keep them chattering, but I told the man I did not
know the habits of chicks, only thought I would mention it to him, for his
opinion.
Then, this morning (there is always some thought to bedevil one) I thought
"Suppose that guy (everybody's a guy on the RR~~or in BB parlance) reported
‘me to the Union, charging me with interfering!"That thought tormented me all
morning, and as I am always glad when Friday night arrives, I was doubly
glad when this day ended-~for besides that, when one sees heads together
here and there, one is always suSpicious, and wonders, "What's cooking now?"
Such is the situation. Sometimes I wish I were back home in N.Y.C.

   
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  

I hope that this finds you in good health, and with my best wishes, I am

Very sincerely yours,
r..w;;,¢..a:»m. ,4; / in{
(Miss) Amelia Schell

It's 8:203M, so I had better run along to my laundry and dinneréa
xx. 912" I
J

 
  
  
 

   
 

("a

'L '-_ a? "A . 1/ /-'¥ ( .f
' g _I v ‘ r l o, _ i 4 * é‘ : *7
49’ / Eff/11.13% Afﬁrm; , «’3 cry «L4 ﬂ
’ i

if _/‘s
' ". ix x: (/ "Iii-"t“!
,2’ "' i x. / l."
‘ a“ '3
I ;
I ff" 3"

i ,
L/




“2232:2323? 3‘3, 3.399533

3233323123323: 233 ,2 I2. 2. {2322232 2:2 :3. 322:2 42232 . 322 . .2 .2: {22.223 22* 3 {2 3' 2323323323;
32.2 232.233 '22. 3-2.2» 2222 2.. :23 1 2.3.3. .1: {22222223 32222 {322' M3 22:22 22* 32. 2:3:
1.23 {22:23 32222.13 22333.23 -2‘.’ .2333. .2222 33 22223 2.22, 3.22" 2.22:: 233322 222 3.2.. 2...: 12.3.
f32t‘23‘23 2222.22 {23’ .2233 3.22. 3322:2223 {23‘ 3 .. .2122.

323:3 322322 {2.322233 22322 2‘ .2233 2522:. 3.2232; 3 “2......2‘ 2:; 3.3232 2323222322" 3‘22} 22212222232
fir3t “.2. 333 {2 3. 322 3322223223 333.3223,........3;;:2 3222-...- 33233 322222.133 222222 2222223
3333333 333333 3333 332. 2332”" 33 $33 3333 333 W‘ 3{3233323. 33 3233
323.3 223222.231ﬁ23 {32:23:23, ”25.23 23222... 32122332“; 33.2: 2.12. (3.... {:2 2.22 2:22.22 .
£31 13333 33 33333333 3h333 3Q 33p3333 33?3.

J):
2.321.

3
32.2332-

{22:23

33 31.33123 {:23 {22.2.3 23 {222.3 2.3; .2 f... :22 22 222:2 ~— ‘ .12. 2233‘? {13222.3
32223 23.223322 : 3’33. 3 2.232231” 2.2333 2.23322 22.23.22.223 332233 .32.
3.223.333. 322 1:33 {.22 2:22.222“ {23‘ 22...? 32222.3 2..., 222. :2 2223.2 3‘32:
“’32.; 33:: 23.2.3 2:23.25- r22~~ 323 3W3... . {:2 2.2.. {“323 .. 3 32:23.3; 3 22:22:32

3333333“, 3.2.22 {332. {:3 2.2122 23 33.3.3. 333'

333333 33 333 32233233 3 333 22 33. 33 3 .333: ”233333; 3 23333 35 3333
33 3 V333 333333 - 333 33 33 ‘33333 33, 33Mfmat, 3: 33333332333 3333
33 333. 333 3333333 333 333 333*3 33 33, 333 *3 L 35 333 33333233 33
martality, 3333933333,3h3 333 3333 233333f33- 3333 33 3333333 333
(303's W311 3‘23!“ I222 .22" 3‘33222‘231 32.333. {:2 3123.2: 22.32:“:{h 2.2.2 {.3333 N233 2:23"
33333 3333333 333 331333 in 33333 3333 333333~., 3333332«‘ 33., 33~23
3333 3332 33_3 333 3333 33 332wh333333 23 323’3333 3-2 322 333
n3ver 33 33 ' : 3333 3333 $33, 333 33 .223; .5323 3 3333; 333 32.2 333

F3. 31933 32 $331  “332. 233231 3333 33 3 3233333333 333133332233 33
n3V3r 3333333 3 33 33333- {3333333 but 313333 33 3 333303 33 3333.

222.23 {33.22 .2233 23122.; 3222233 23 2222 2333322..
P303. 13;. 2.21.3 - 3” 2.22:2 2:323 33:: of :33 .2332: .22": “2.: .2122 L3 2:22:22 323"

‘52
z

3323 3333’ 2.2-22 323 {:2 2:2 21:: 33339.22. “

{3:333:33 3.232.122 {.31 {2331, 1,133,. 3m, .27 {2333 2:322. 322, 3.32:: 2233
22322333333. s .. ---~333333 . 2 33322 1332*. 3 3.3.3 3 “2.222 2313‘ 32:22:22:
in 333L332...

wk

’33 2313‘

332.21 .. "2‘23 {23: .2233. 322333, 3 “22333333 {7. {.223 , 2:22.32: 3. 22 32231.1 ‘33 3333 33 it;
2233 2233.3 #2223.”

32:22:22,322. 2.222; 2.213 2222 33:22:23.3 3223 3.3333 2:33, 3:223 .22 13:32; .3 23222:. 322.33 .2; 332222
3.32.22... 2;;1‘23ﬁ {23* 3.22233 32.22 2. 23‘: 2222* 332:3, 3‘ {3223322223 222“: 33322 3.223 33333.:- 3':
2:23 33132232223 22.23331232232 3... .3 31’532. 21232.23 22132333 222 .32., 233:3 333‘ .33
3133222233. 32223., 33 233 333 3.233.223.3331, 222:; ’22::3212' 223d .2. 223.12. 33:33 3:23 tw-

gzé $3.; 921’ a

"“2323? 3333332?

 




1:211 :31 .11 11?
111 111 1911 111111111 1111

.01 11111111 11, 1111 111 1111111 1111'11 111 11111111
11 111‘1'111111 (11 111 1111 111111111 1111) 111_111111 111111
11 111 3.111 11 1111111 1111 - 1111111 1111 11 113 1111111
111111111, 111 11111 1111, 111 111111111 11 1111 111 11 1111
111111 11 11111111. 111 111111 11 11 1 1111111 £11111 111
1111111111 111311111 111111 11 111111 11 #1111111 31111 (January
1151) 1f .%2 11.11111 11 111 1111. 11 11111 11 1111 111 11111
111 111 11111 111 111111 11 111111. if 11111 111111 1111 be a
111 111111 111111 1111 111111113 11 11111 11111‘11111111*u=¢w41~416111
1111111 11 111 111111 111 1111.

I 11111 11 31111 11111 111 1111111111‘1191 I 1111111111
111 111 1111 111M 111 111111 11111 11 L111 111 111111133, 111 in
11 111111 11 111 11 111111 1 1111 11 1a 111 1111 11111 wear
11111 *11 1111111 11 1 11111 111111 111, 111 11111 £11 11 ané'waa
11111111 1111 1111 11 11 11 11 1111. ”111111 111111 11111.11?»
111111 11-111’1111 11 11 111 1111.

111 11111 1111 111111 11111 in her 111 111111 “111”.
111 1111111 1111111 1111, 111111 in 1111 111111111 and l1v1, h;t'
111 111111 11111 11111. 1111 111. 711111 11111111 111 I 1111 11
111 111311 111 1111111, 111 111 11111111311111 1*11111 1111111.
111 111111 113111111 11 111, 111 111111.

“111 111 111 «11111111 11111 11111 was 111 11111“
”yam“ but; {123% lamly 3153??? 3M ’36” 23%? 811111111.” "’

«111 111 111 1 111 111 111113 V111, 111 1 will 11111
111111 11111 11113 11111 11111111 111111 11 "11111y 111 11111.“
1111 111 111 111 1111 1111 11 11 11111 111 1111 111 th1y 11111
111, ”1111111 1111 1111 111111 111

111 :11 1111 1111 :11 111 ~ 1111 11 $111111!” 111111118111
(11 11111 111 :11 111111 w 1111 111 1.1111}, 1111111 in 111 111
11111111 *‘11v1y 1911 - 1156“, xnﬂxhlx 11 h113“111111 11111
:1111 111 111111 1111111 11111111113: "1111111“ 1111113 111111
11111, 111 1111111,~11111 11 “1111113 £111 10V1ﬁ1 $111111 ~ 11111
111 111 111111 11111111 - 111 111111f11 11111 11 111.11'1 11111
11‘11113 1111 11 1h1111.

111 111111 111111 1111 1111111 11111 11” aff11111111¢
11411111 1111 11 1111111: ”1111 . 2111 1 1111 111” 3 111 11111111:
111 111, 1 1111 1111 1111 11 1111” , an 1111 111 111 1111.

111 111 all 1 111 1111, 113111 11 $111121}, 1111111 11
3111 111 1111111. s11111111 1111111 111 111 11 11 1111, 111
111111 1111111 111111 to 111 - ”I 11111111111” It 11 no 13111 to
1111, 11111111 111111 '11111, 1111 111 1111 111131 1111111111.

W _ 2 mm 1181 a 1111 p11, a 1111 1111111, 113131 111
f1111£11 £11111. Good~bye little Doll I mis s you 30. Your passing

has left a 11111, lonely Spot in my broken heart.
Your;1111y

 




Na
'1

. ’ .,. ’ ,r ’-
[)NWM " @241 17-4 lbl 553" 3%,“; j Mel/m,

Little Snazzy bab3,*wherevar 1 a3,‘whatevar 1 10

In “7 hﬁmrt, in 13 11nd, sweetmeart, t3“? 339 i1cvyht$ cf'30u
Bea«tiiul dc11 3131 31338333 3am 33$, 31 £333? 3mu 16

{on 1&3 1nvw, faithful pal, ”3 lava 668 wit“ 3am, 330.

“ *r' ~ 3.: ’1 5“; .3 s. ,3 3 ,1 . .3 N
1&1373-333 3311111 3; w~ﬂ: f”°?§fwro, an 1131 $1 1&1;
i

.. . . 1,: 1.. .17. 4.1-7 1' 7',“ ‘3 , if.
{30“} a co EL) ”Li” a ;r€? at (2516133139, R 112’} f? ,1 :a‘gvzj‘ix Ci ngz‘j{i Lay‘s:
ﬁssert.

 




Feb. 3, 1959
Thought you might like to know -
There are sparrows along the railroad tracks,<on the siding, where
the ice cars stand, and occasionally the Rules Examiner car is
on that siding, just south of the depot, where cars are parked
at right angles to the track (i e. autos), and where I park mine
when I can set it into a space’ hany townspeople park there, de-
priving us employee of a decent place.)
Lately, uhile it is dark when I go home - I usually stay to do
my personal typing - I scatter two slices of bread nMXXianXXR XE'Which.
I cutxsssaxesxinto little squares, along the walk~way, close to the, are, for
the little birds. I used to scatter it as I got out of my car after
lunch (returning to work) but thought a special agent might complain about me.
One never knows where one will pop up to get a person into trouble. There are
track cleaners sweeping when I come to work, and in case they sawtme, the
special agent would intimidate them into telling, so putting it out there
at NthL, the birds, up early in the morning will have it eaten or carted
away by the time the track cleaners are on the job. I saw these poor birds
huddled together one cold day, trying to find something to eat. I don‘t know wt
whether they ta} is any of the little squares into their nests,,or eat all of it. A
I have looked for it-hﬁt can't determine if the birds dispose of it, or whether
the track cleaners sweep it up - that is why I don‘tgwant to get caught. I put
the dark bread out which blends with the soil and~ciﬁ3$$%% and is less
noticeable. Nobody ever thinks about the birds, I don't suppose. And since
Snazzy is gone, seems I have to feed some little dependent thing.I suppose this
would be termed littering the rig s of way.

 




BO; 255, Pocatello, Idaho
February 2, 1959

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

Thank you for your kind letter of January 2hth, which I received only'
today, at 12 o’clock, when I went to the PO (at lunch). "

I will never get over little Snazzy's passing; when I return for lunch,
she is not there; the same at night; and in the car when we would ride
together and I would talk to her - and time goes on and on and it will
always be the same - without her. I shed so many tears, each day.‘ In
my dream the other night, I was in an odd place, the sand was $51 red,
and there were places so hard to get out of, narrow places between these
red rocks, and I kept calling "Snazzy" "Snazzyf, where are you?" Other

degs would come to me, and.I would say, "No, you are not Snazzy, where
is Snazzy?" ”

I am making recordings of poems I find in Hill Judy's book, "Don't Call
a Man a Dog." - also some from Anne Campbell's poems; and in some.I just
talk to her, as though she were still with me.

I phoned the Poundmaster tonight and he said that he has about 10 dogs

and all are large but two cockers. He said ﬂiey are not pure bred; they

look as though they are crossed. He said they are the toy type, how-

ever. One is not red and not tan - sort of in between, and the other one

is black. I asked where he got them, and he said the people didn't want

them and turned them over to him. He remarked that he does not destroy

them unless they get sick and there is noczhance for them to survive.

I told him that if I went there to see them and I would not be able to

resist their pleading and would feel sorry for the remaining one; then

after taking it, would be sorry I did not hold out for a Pom. I had in-

stilled in my mind to try to get a blond Pom to resemble Snazzy. He said

thayaare real nice little dogs.gﬁwvwﬂWwwdabthﬂhhﬂbﬂz

M éz’mgﬁélle 0km: t\kvM,L/\£{< 044’ 2’! MCLﬂu‘M/M. {"7” ' " 1511.1,»sz - 5.

My landla y when I told her I was going to get a German Shepherd so I

would have real protection riding in the car alone, and she reminded me

that if I come with a big dog she will put me out of the apartment. She
does not have a kind heart for animals, I am sure, and Snazzy detected that,
as she would keep close watch on her when she came into thek%partment, and
would eyecher feet to see where they were going, and shéawgé whine for me
to pick h§¥ﬂﬁp that she was"going to bite her toes.” When the landlady would
go into the kitchen Snazzy would be right there between her and her dishes;
I explained to her that Snazzy was protecting her dishes, and my purse, as
they were our posse ssionsﬂta 23144 MW 1w. angel: It“ 31.375 Weak“! alike/4341’-
Looked in the phone book for thQﬂBann ck County SPCA; also asked wr. Kings—
ford, Poundmaster, as I was sure he would know, but he said that he never
heard of an SPCA in Pocatello. I will go to the address you gave me and
see what is there. That is a block from the Idaho State College campus. At
one time there were people here who tried to form a Humane Society, but it
seems it failed for lack of support.

One evening going home I went down to the baggage room to see the little dog
that was whining all afternoon, and the man told me that it was inside, and

because the little do, was guiet thought % would not disturb it He told

me that there was a c te po m attached to

he packing cratelabout a

6MM4EQ£ZRVM£(:

 




-2-
little dog torn away from its mother and nobody to talk to. He said he
couldn't remember all of it, but it was cute.. It was going from Gooding to
Idaho Falls

I was interested to know that your daughter attends college; also that she
enjoyed hearing about Snazzy s intelligent and endearing ways. She was reall

a little doll. Was interested in knowing what ymnnx college your daughter
attends.

Alec enclose a clipping showing the censervation of’ficer lending a hand to
stranded deer. That is a humane service, and I am glad that our animals are
taken care of, and there are some people, or Services, to be on the lookout
for them.. ’ ' ”

I enclose another confidential communication. It is indeed odd how such
a 10 s can occur, unless from heavy impacts w‘n ere the animals fall down,
orApacked too tiahtly. Poor things probably suffer before death overtakes
them. It is a pity, too, they must die so we can eat their meat.’ I often
think of it when I buy a steak. Incidentally Snazzy used to love swiss
steak, and would bark when she would smell it decking. I think of her wh en
I cook it in my pressure cooker. There is hardly any time when she is not.
in my mind. She was a wonderful protector, too; I was never afraid with
her accompanying me in the car, or walking.,Mﬂyuxvd/nﬂ1 ~/,wﬂﬂy Qﬁxwﬁﬁvjuﬁﬂﬂy
I1 ”LBW thioﬁmZZ/LLW web/w LY/tf? ”‘rvwvtvjﬁ/L 72/ K “(4.112% [Jr/21.6111, ”kw-2w f
It is ozEO and I want to go to a “tole ’before it closes at 7, so must
hurry. I appreciated your letter very much, and hope to have you write and
tell me what the society is working on now. ’ ‘

. a
I belong to the NE Anti-Vivisection See. in Boston, and Mr. Farnum must be a
very‘fine man with a high spiritual sense, from the way he writes. I have
recorded_many things he has written on animal immortality.
With kind regards and best wishes, I am

Sincerely,

_ t 7
(z [,1 .1 4/ r, ’ I 1‘ I)?
. ,/(,Lu.1: (a; A; .7 LC‘JZK

Amelia Schell.

Y7K - 91111.57 4,.“

A/crw/ ”kiwi r/xl
041 W Z! 41,43177721 L (f

i/ff 4M! Kit—5": ”€477.12; £1551 1&4va *3 f4“ gid7f7/7 ‘
an min 11:14 £121.. new ”(A17 {J 75/7 54‘ zrc 17;.K Mm [771.

)7 7727/vwi ”kt/JQ/ 7/st M17
:Villya7 NKXKV’ 113:7 {Hth/ jxm7rréu’

Kay/mem ”a” Ctme few/a d’vJ ”Me
(/1, C Li‘ w— ,1,
ffet‘ (f ' 75% 9ywvz/‘tz/é/ /’L ”C (J: V/L

We [KCK {Aral/b 1/9 ”at

{7/7 Wm 11%: 7/1

 




LENDING A HAND to’ stranded deer is Conservation officer Martel Morache. This is a natural mi-
gration point where approximame 2,000 buckskins swim across Lucky Peak reservoir near Boise
as they move down from the summer ranges. These deer made it over sheet ice along the 'shore
line to open water but could not climb out on the other bank. Morache has roped one of the does
from canoe and will be towed ashore by other Fish and Game department workers at the end
of the rope. '

 

 




‘ q‘ 1 . . “
I ' . 1’“
0 J Rafi , {'5 y}. 145‘ ML " 14L

we: .,.;.e{" L4; xiuvwg "up; w»

\

.1 '75-1‘ ) 'A . r,-
. :1"! 'YI’Vé—g4v3 3": 9.4953, 5x”

1.,

‘ ngbé. 3

 




P.S. I have written the enclosed. A friend wrote me that when she read
that Snazzy is gone (this lady is in hbntpelier, with whom I became acquaint-
ed while working there 2 yrs.l9SS-l957) she shed tears, and hen am uiing
the part about the little Dog Heaven from her letter.I can recor blank dlSCS
on my Phonocord Radio a Record * * BQXZSS, Pocatello, Idaho
player, and will make a record of December 29, 1955

these. (0 var on P.hfbr PPS)
Dear Mrs. Stevens,

ﬁ)‘ Ihank you for your letter of the 19th.

a ‘1

I can't get used to Snazzy being gone; she used to be there when I
returned for lunch, and at night. Sometimes she would hide, and I
would pretend not to see her and keep saying, ”I don't see her; I
had a little girl when I left, now I don't see her anywhere; wonder
where she is." Then I would go from room to room, look under the
bed, out into the kitchen, and there she would be playing the little
game with me, and when I would turn, sue would be behind me, and I
would laugh and tell her "0 doodness, there she is my little Boodsie.”
I suppose she thought "Listen to her babying me, the old fool."
:ﬂzshmzmhnnghnzmxwasxnomthmnz When I did not return home at my
usual time (stayed at office to write personal letters) she would
stand or lie behind the door and just not let me in until she was good
and ready. I hﬁﬁXﬁﬁXﬁXXhﬁXﬁXKﬁhX hung a mirror low on the wall, and
one higher, so I could see where she was behind the door, as I did
not want to push her,-nor have the door go over one of her legs which
might break in attempting to get up. Only once did she fall for
the ruse of going to my glove when I threw it in. I would take my
coat off, hﬁXXXX reach my purse in the small opening, throw the
gloves in, and then squeeze through the tiniest opening, then when I
would be in, wi hout touching her, I would say "See, I in." ihen
she would get up, after all my effort of squeezing in. I miss that.
When she was able to jump on a chair, she would sit at the table with
me and I would feed her out of my hand, or brace the dish against
the leg of the table, a: it could not slide off. Sometimes she pre-
tended she did not like what I gave her, or just wouldn't eat it, to
be fed out of my hand, and then when I would tell her "I eating the
same, UmUmUm, but all gone; no more." Then she would eat what she
had in her dish. It took me some time to get wise to this little
trick, to get food from me and from her dish.' One time when she
did that, I thought she did not like the ground round, and I had a
T bone, so I ate the ground round and cut up the T bone steak for
her.: All these little memories come back to me, and I keep wondering
if there would have been something could have been done for her. I
think when she lost her footing off the curb (or it might have been a
little spell) she broke a blood vessel, and it was only a matter of
time when the clot reached her little heart, for she commenced to
develop a little pounch under her chin. She looked so cute with it,
but it was starting to change the shape of her face. 1I think the pink
pill the veterinarian gave me to give to her 3 times a day, also had
something to do with it, as Sunday, the 9th, after She had one with
the morning meal, and one at noon, and I took her out, she fell down
limp; then I took her to the park and walked her lul/2 hours, but she
; was very slow. Gradually she was not able to pick up her fooi, but
slopped it out of her dish.with her tongue, and when I would hand it
to her, she did not seem to be able to take it, and would then walk
away. I feared so, that the doctor might haveto put her to sleep, and
thought I would defer going till the end of the week and see if the

 




-2-

pouch would reduce by that time. Also, I noticed for some time before
that, that nhexwwwin her feet would slide from under her on the lin-
oleum, and I put shag rug down in the kitchen, so she would have_a
footing. When I-weuéesputZﬁp'on the work top, sh to put vaseline on

her nose (as it seemed to be so cracked, and once I saw her rubbing it
on the rug, and there was a tiny piece of the little black nose hanging
off) nhexwwwkdx or put Murine in her eyes she would slip on the top.
Her nails did not seem to be has any longer than usual, but as my

hours were 9 - 6, I promised myself I would go,that following Saturday,
but she was gone by then. his keeps going through my mind, that
perhaps I should have taken her earlier, although It was 11/8 when he
gave me the pink pills, and she was gone in 2 weeks.“ I had such a fear
that he might have to put her to sleep, but God took her instead. That
is the only consolation I have, because I would not fail her in the
end, sin was always so faithful and a wonderful protector.

My car was broken into again on the 23rd, when 50 other cars were
prowled, and the orlon Indian design blanket over the frontseat and
,he summer cushion of woven plastic, were solen. They broke the vent
window, but it is dangerous ankszextnxieazexkkaxnax having to leave
the ear out all night with the window broken; the police thought xxx
the theft of the blanket was a blind, that later the thief would
return and steal the car. I had just paid $50 for repairs to the
motor, the Saturday before. ‘ '

On Christmas Eve I phoned the poundmaster, but he was out showing another
lady the dogs. ’Ihe pound is located way off in the hills at the city
dump. Finally he phoned, and said that he just has mongrel dogs, smooth-
~haired. The lady took a big dog; they have a big place to keep it. He
said that they get meat from the EXKHEKX meat packers here, and the dogs
seem to like their fare; also that they keep the dogs that are good. If
they are mangey, or not worth anything, they destroy them. I thought his
son first told me that they have German shepherds, but my landlady told
me that if I come up in the apartment with a big dog I can't stay. I
told her I would get one the size of a pony and rideait to work, then I
would have a protector, and not need the car. She is one of those big
raw~boned women (with_plenty of money that she never had to earn) he
told he she would rather have flies in the house than a dog. when I

had Snazzy in my arms the night before she died, taking her out,qmy land-
lady was out in the hallway, and started talking, delaying my taking
Snazrout, and the poor little thing's head was way down on one side ofer
my arm, as though she was tired of waiting; little did I think she would
be gone the next day. ny landlady that night invited me to come in to
see TV, which I did, and I am so glad that little Snaz did not die while
I was in there; when I returned to the apt. I put her on my lap while I
read, and combed her with my side comb, to make up not being there with
her.

I am wondering if you could write to the American Humane Soc. in Denver,
and ask them about the rabbit eradication. Or isn’t there a Humane See.
in Boise. I have no way of knowing, but perhaps you have a directory. I
too wish there was some humane substitute, as those poor things must
have a horrible death, and it seems there whould be a better way, even

than.clubbing them. It's no wonder children aqcruel when they think
nothing of beating these poor things to death.

 




 

    

We haveu,£ten%nt Gig-pge ag$£$m%n Ijouse. One suga ested I get aiother
dog/n and we 1nd3d me how tired out I used to be gelng up and
down the stairs, and I told her I would gladly do it again, if I could
only have her back, and would take her out even more, and let other
things go. A couple, another te rzant, have a canary, named Dar — a
Czechnslovakian namexfmnx name of endearment; they told me that the life
of a canary i.s about 5 years and they know when little Dar 3 time comes,
theyx just how they will feel, and think I should get another Pom just
like Snazzy and call her Snazzy, too. 1 '

I don t buy the paper, as I can never stay awake to read it through,
and there isn‘t much in it, anyway; the weekly paper I do get (Pierre's
column is in it, you know)and th ney have accumulated, so some night I

will start through them to see if I missed anything worth while. I
used to save them all for Snaz's box.

Th ne poundmaster said he has a puppy there, a mixed breed, but inasmuch
as I have been accustomed to a long haired dog, xmimkx and Ii} :e a Pom
perhaps I should wait and get anoth.e r one. There is a woman here'whoémo
KIEXKEKIX Pom kennels but she said she won't have any till the spring.

my friend hay Weber (for whom I wrote all those letters fbr humane
animal slaughter,) had .e to ear home for Thanksgiving and Christmas,
dinners. But when I g . home it is always the same, I EXXEXXKE get
that weak, sickish feeling in my chest on the way home, and weep all
the way home, and when I get home I find no solace. I've been working
hard in t.r e apartment to keep my mind occupied, but even that doesn‘t
help. I thought it will be the ame thing, if a second dog lives
her ne tural span of In or so,-XXIIX grief upon her death

I alt 101st made arran;;me1ents to go out and see the dogs at the pound, but
knew it would tear my heart out to disappoint any one of them, and I
couldn't have my heart bleed any more than it is, and if the now puppy
he mentioned gets to be a big dog, the landlady will shoo me out.

Little Snaz was a good protector and could detect a stranger coming

in the door downstairs, which is 3 apartments removed in distance from
our door, and instinctively knew hexwmmkdx his intentions thereby
warning me to take my position before the door, and put the chain
across.

I asked the poundmaster to keep me in mind if he gets a good dog. He
said while it may not take the place of a former dog, you get to love
it no matter what it is, and I know that is true. He said he has never
had a Pom in the 5 years he has been poundmaster.

I did not mean for my letter to be so long, and I trust you will
indulge me , for the re is no one else to talk to, and it seems every-
body is too absorced in TV to care whether one is happy or sad.

122.5 WW
I hope you have had a lovely ChrL stmags ”/and that the New Iear will
give you an abundance of happiness and good health.

Sincerely gambéz<3eéi7

I ho e I sent you our -
p v amelia Schell

Christmas card.

 

 

   




-u-
Christmas 1
P E. I made a recording/en two SWall discs, but the needle rem off,
and I started to weep and that is in the record for posteritv. Then a
(wedding) Chiearie pas sed erd the horn blowing; XE mars tiie record.
I have recordings of Snazzy’s singing. I would say, ”Sine Suez 2y” and

she would sing the Pretty Collar Song.-

If I were home in NY I could go out_to$ wan ntagh, LI and adopt a pet; or
go to the Humane Soc. ( rs.IMiddletou ose e) and get one. These would be

,dogs that were cared for.

The Natl. Soc. in Denver (Humane) told me thet a Humane 0be. had been
started here one time but was not kept up. 1he Poundmester seems to be a

kindly soul, from the sound of his voice and the friendliness in 1t.

 




NNNEQNS F: <va
.- QNNNNNN \é: x® gimgx‘” «9E4 h :NAK‘NNX:

a: Eh. §$§ ch Nk‘gmimxmm Nth NJMNS .
NNNNN NNAN, KN NEE

§NT<RN \SNNANNSN/NNN NAN :N .
E39? : NNN§N(N.\ A AN:N FNNNN \NNF
+ NWNE: NNUNNN N?N:N NNN N

QuerNS \NS «Ni/Si

NNLNN: {Ne $5:

NEMN N N

 




‘p x: a \ x

.V. . x x ‘ in“ \ \

n.2,... CxQA\\m\\/. (\‘MQ.J.\r \§\\1 N\ i «(4L1
c

.x

\. :
\KC \W\Kw\\ ,_.‘.ﬂ_u\«w\,_wﬂ\ (V
Mxmu 1 ﬁgﬁéea .

_
.

m
_ _\
a

\ RON :9

f
..
m,
.w
\

 




Box 255,,Pocateilo, Idaho
September a, 1958

Hear Mrs. Stevens and/or
Mrs. Madeleine Bemelmans,

By extending my coffee brean, morning and afternoon, somewhat, today,
and working extra fast on my ofiice work, I was able to get my

additional word of thanks by PS on my ‘Scheii“ letters typed, and
mailed out.

- In
loday, now 7: EU I wrote in my PS's by hand on the ”harnes" letters,

and am mailing them. There are just one or two ixwantxﬁnzimmkmbaek

about which I want to iefer to my file, to see now they stood beiore
I send them thanks.

KM”?

Best wishes

‘Very sincerely *

Amelia Scnell

0

(M
f3 7 «5/ farm/lg #75:; Lyn—7 71/71/7752 /( @1144 Z»

4r Z 5/“ ”31. i! ’V/ U 161'"?

7:

,/ [2:4, _,z ‘5 W
4711/ am eru’<,- Ck m/uvprok /47

. I a. ,, ,
9&4. jw/ zbw LLC TLuo 43W ‘UUJWJW

ﬁfty/7K [34“
(CM lot; Jar/MM CW4 gel/rid

‘ /%&946 EUuQ’
A711.) (3'ka ﬂ/QWK L0. Irma 1ft”? 1:
I Lﬂuﬁ4€ 3Z%UQZ§,Z%Q5ka

WILL/ox. W’t W‘zcwré

A “#1 e47

1,15 [Jed/KL IMW ffIJ/ée/Z'
‘OMA,0 ULﬁnﬂax (J/~61¢fuwv%ﬁ% [V7V"QJ£>JM aAQA/v
[Ur/44ZL0’ fw%£/W% “wﬂvﬁbw‘9Wﬂg

“A U¢> AiafnﬂEnéaoa ﬁzyeckily£¢% 4” §§E:;A:::qzmazrmd- «I Lie/auxndoea

 




: Irma-«W WwW 9m v .‘

m «u. 21% W 7W W, W W ~25 z: A
I

x i . ,e ‘ , , ., x ., y W .- (W WWW
4/9 Lm A" (“WW—£54) mlww\ WK; £91369 J" 3 WA? / L A“ .

¢ ‘ i a 4‘
WW WW ﬂ/l WW ,W, WW 1 we mw

4t(9 K3»? &Avwxﬂﬂytf

Thought you would be interested in Buzz of the_Burg clipping regarding
the condition of the animais at Ross Park. I am giad that some one
has taken notice of this, and I note the Line "Page our sanitary
inspector." That Should put him on the Quart, and might lead to better
food for the animals. Wnen I an able to get out in the car again, I
wilt check on their food and find out what else they get besides hay
and bread. I haven't been to see the alimals for a Long time, and
Last Sunday was the first time that I have been abie to take a ride in
the car in ever so logg, as my accumulated Chores and cooking Keep ma
busy in the apartment,’%%§%ng to get that snip-shape. My apt. is not
large enough for the things I have, for which I have an attachment
having brought thenlfrom NY and after having them all these years hate
knzﬁnnemknxﬁkhzmhnamxﬁrmmz to part with them.

Best wishes - 9/5/58 - ﬁzoOPM -
Sincerely yours,

XSAnzwcnderingifInaveaiready Amelia Scnell
I enclose Copy of the PS I wrote
in ink on the Barnes letter.

XhZﬂXEeMXNdﬁdﬁﬁéXNEKﬂﬂMﬁnaMahabhyZhﬁhihkmBEKKEEWNEMKEZMX
In case I did not send you a copy of the Barnes Letter, here is miother
copy. -

PIease send Mr. Clarence Westley, Route 2, Box 612, South Miami 56,
Florida a c0py or your printed letter to Humalitarians of August 29.
I am asking him not to Vite for Rolland and to infiuence others not
to do so, and to campaign against him all he can, and by reading
this Letter (even the prior one if you have a copy to send to him)

will give him his talking points.\—\9///5y

 




QUOTE F3332 TQQAY —- “The great, £33333 3 ﬂag a little in £30333
of us poor people.’ ' “E. Cllowe.

m

"3333333333335 331333333 533333333 .— One 3333} prettiest" sights any

morning is to pass hvt .33 33303333333; gmry 3333363 on the fence at the
home of Mrs N. G Franklin 31’23 \‘V'eat Bonneville. .

WE HAVE HEARD compla 33335 that: 310““?ij a definite lack of
cleanliness as to the cages 33.333.33.33 at R05 5 Park
If we are going to have a “[3333 the least 3333 can do is to see that it i<
properly maintained. .36 c- we it {o the inn-3:336:35 as well as to ourselves.
Incidentally, little, .33 3333933333333: has been done to improve the sani—
tary condition of the res-33'. 30331335 33.: the park. More facilities should
be provided. Page our 533331332333,» 3331;333:003“. Conditions at the park most
certaian should come under 3333 iui‘isdiction . . . ‘

 




Box 255, Eocatello, ldaho
aeptemher 3, lQSS

ﬁrs. Stevens and/or
. Bemelmans,

I don’t thing I answered your letter or axgist 79 “for Lys.stevens‘ as
thoroughly as l shoald have. Note it we nt”~l “no; A n nrnor, Hich.,

J r circular letter 1 . e , August l)

of the 43 and the 29 on th’ e ;~ ‘3 1 column. She MW“

t receive the two-page letter. I let ‘ * to read; also?
tter addressed to the a3 plus other b ,3 ~ioa a “ Senators. To-
started addressing my envelopes to the .»"a e i “ ~L the list you

me toward the beginning of our campaign.

i
kw

you

0he is anxious for ‘l ’ ident to mahe reply to her, so that shl will
have the White Hous » I anery and the as flag stamp. When I a rle to
do so l will write ;;, President congratulating him for sig

measure into law, a d enclosing a copy of my letter to the

l most cer" _. as going to advise my hrother-in—law in

vote for S w, - dolland.

I thought it would he a good idea to send those 9 against whose names 1
have marked an ”HG" a cooy of the letter to the a3—plus. Khan I told this
to Hrs. Tharp she commented that they will probably reply saying they were

for it all the time, and even voted ‘or the measure.

Heard on the radio last night ahout Senator Netherger having an Operation
for a magtt malignant tumor. 1 hope he maaes a complete recovery. I

was sorry to hear this, as he is one of the good senators who worked so
hard for our poor animals. lf 1 can remember to do so l thought a get-well
card to Senator neuherger would be appropriate.

About the dog on Dolbeer Street, 1 will go there again and investigate.
Snazzy is a happy little girl and such a good little dog. l am sorry she
has that 'heart' cough which seems to be more frequent. She is such a lot
of company and must have the 'pochethook' to mind when I come home. a
prior assess master taught her that.

I did inquire ‘f the man in the baggage room aoout the pathetic pig a he
informed me that the pig was able to turn around in the crate for theAw ter.
whenever I mane inquiries in behalf of an animal i see there, they always
say the same thing: that they ”are too busy now”.

Mrs. Tharp expressed a wish to be retained on the mailing list to he able to
follow up this matter.

By all means Keep §y_name on the m-‘

I think my hrotnar-in—law has been ‘ ring this quite closely, and “ight
like to hear from you direct; he is . iend of animals.

If 1 sent the Bresident's letter addressed to me as ”hrs. Barnes" to you for
your reference (and any other letters from senators you might have kexme
tnxetkhexxname to me, or in behalf of those for whom l wrote letters)

may I ask for their return to complete my files. Surprising enough this file

which 1 Keep in a separate box has grown to large preportions.

 




“[v—

How that the finei enactment of the humane slaughter law has'been
accomplished, no doubt you are taking a well deserved rest. Am by
toe same to en woooexluo whet you taize up next, as no oouot your
society is a permanent one.

* not fine the olioping enclosed with your letter of the Zﬁth
' :rom ﬁne grbor, and am wondering what the Clipping was. In
of all these other letters, and thoughts of letters for
ray e nt hrs. ohigelt; and my DTOthQF"iﬂ~laV1 Clarence We estiey
it jus t ooesn't Come to me, what the (H1 »o.n was about.
d:£?¥eoeil. it was toe oo:.: rescued from the sewer , or some
of confinement, ¢ ste. rveo but olive.

too, am very heepy that the US now has a law

for humane slaughter,
i hope that the new methods will go into effect

very soon.

“ 0

v’
V
v! 51/ 5; I: S U

r Rind words for my efforts. i feel rec ompensed
oe ss ful, and hove often thougnt toet to; work of the

stem ietters; mailino lists; answerik

u
c
We t.oot1ememoous. I ooo’t see how you attended to so
om:
5:3

130

ssioos. It is gretifyino to know that

MC? as you and yous o3ganlzetlon to taee up for our

trienos Vino
C

Q

--1 ,r -1 y.
L11“; i S

are unable to (e”end themselves. It must be e huge

(LA.

otace, to get 3e pie interested.
and wito best wishes to you both, I am

DI‘CQ 8.5.

3.1%

£415.18. JCﬂeil

 




| \ V

Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
July 25, 1958

Mrs. Louise Stevens and/or'

Mrs. Madeleine Bemelmans

bociety for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth.Avenue, Room 812

New York 22, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

I believe the enclosed letters dated July I to me as “Barnes" and
"Schell" from henry Dworshak and to my aunt,_Louise Whigelt of July 2
came after I mailed my last letter to you. Anyway you might wish

to see these.

Inasmuch as I do not have the letter from Sen. Church advising me
that he is going to vote for the effective humane slaughter legi5la~
tion must have sent it to you. Sometimes it is hard to remember,
especially if I have laid them out either to send, or to file.

I have not had an opportunity to go to South Park and look along
Dolbeer Street for those two mistreated dogs, but Keep hoping to do so.

Yesterday, during my coffee breaks and perhaps a slight extension
thereof, I wrote mr. Rogers. Trying to write a letter under a strain
is not too easy, hence I hope it sounds 0K.

Last night I got caught up on reading the July ZZ (Tuesday) paper, and
enclose Clipping about “Rabbit NBnace".

Also enclose some private and confidential communications. I felt so
sorry for the 26 head of sheep that died because of crowding on the part
of the purchaser who examdx overcrowded to the extent of 10 to l5 too
many sheep in each car, not giving sufficient room for them to get their
heads down, and some of the sheep standing With their front feet on the
backs of others, they were shoved and pushed in so tight, I imagine.
Poor things, what they go through - and humans are supposed to have ,
"sense"; and the poor things just go where they are pushed. honder what
these animals think of humans packing them in like that till they are
unable to move. I imagine such crowding would break their ribs and pre-
vent them from even breathing, and if they could not put their heads down
must have smothered. What greedy, stupid peOple there arel I saw the
Condrs. report.

I don't quite get what caused the death of 54 ewes and 22 lambs in the
shipt. of la cars of sheep to Hawgood, Idaho.

I have received your printed letter of July 21, also additional copies of
editorials. It is already dlﬁrand i will try and write the letters

you ashed to be written to non-co-sponsors, from our states._ I lost
sight of that. fhﬁfﬁte Sen. Uworsnak for A.S. and here are those for***
I an wondering now Libby stands, as I snun Swift's ham and get Libby's.
Uur super market, where I make ¢¢¢ my purcnases get their meat from
Zweigerts, here, and Independent Meat 00., Twin Falls. Some day I will
write and ask if they employ painless slaughtering techniques.

- 1V ‘ g - 'Ver sincerely yours
MW. . MW“ QM MW ’
// ,Amel’a Sche

I ”Mrs. Barneswégh%§§ﬁkﬁgy Weber. written urrledfy a hope they are UK

 




box 255, Pocatello,
July 21, 1958
or"

Wank-€431.
.. \- I
‘w—
;‘7,l":’

Mrs. Christine Stevens and/or ﬂﬁgzkﬂ

Mrs. Madeleine Bemelmans 3‘

Society for.Animal Protective Legislation
745 Firth.Avenue

New York 22, N. Y.

Mrs. Christine Stevens

Animal Welfare heeiety Institute
22 East 17th St.

New York 5, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:
Dear Mrs. Bemelmans: ,
with your card-message 7/13
I read the reprint of the good editorials, which you enclosedL/and_
you would think with all the publicity the senators would not dare
to foist on the public, and especially the humanitarians, the old 'gag'
about the bill requiring more study. It only there were less politics
in the running of our government. I sometimes think that Russia realizes
this phase of our goverrment, which is another point to belittle us to

her peOple.

I was very happy to learn that Senator Church is going to vote for
the effective humane slaughter bill. I hepe it is not too late, for
when I have another minute I will endeavor to write Senator Uworshak
and tell him this, with hOpes that he will goallong with our Demo-
cratic Senator from Idaho. (Am sneaking at writing this much, as I am
gm on another job, Steno to Chief Clerk;nhxn the incumbent is off
her job, as she has been since the 16th, working another job] aand
as I sit next to the Asst. Ch. Clerk, I have to Keep one eye on him .
and one on the lookout for the Chief Clerk, hence cainot concentrate
as well as when on my own job, down in the corner, where I can write
during my coffee break, and up here, they might not realize it is my
coffee break at my desk.)Hence fastened my sheets, to Slide it out of
the machine when he pops through the door.
I heard on the radio on Saturday that the residents of Aberdeen are
on a bunny hunt again, as they have been bothered with them ruining
their crops. 1 was amt paying much attention to the announcement, but
I managed to glean from it, also, that Extension.Agent Milroie (or
Milroye—-I aminot sure} and could not find it in the Poca. phone book)
was going up there, (to.Aberdeen) today, to investigate. Ends: I
see listed in the phone book under State of Idaho—Dist. Extension
Agents, Court House, ?ocatello. That seems to identify them. Wonder
if the Boise Humane 500., will represents the bunnies in these whole-
sale clubbings. I would not want to witness such cruelty.0n the high-
way, the headlights seem to blind them, and they sit right in the middle of
the late, then dart under the car to the shoulder,2and, of course, are
hit. I used to swerve every which way to avoid them; even put out my
lights, and felt so badly when I happened to hit one; then I found that by
honking the horn repeatedly, they run back,b¢i¢t¢/t¢/ off the pavement to
the barrow-pit. If I see one in the distance, I continue honking until I
am even with it, and invariably they will remain in the barrow-pit.

 




Frank Church sent me the enclosed in the name of Mrs. Wilson A. Barnes;
also one in the name of Miss Amelia bohell. I expected to see some-
thing about the humane legislation and was disappointed not to find any
comment or report. 'nowever, I am glad that he is going to vote for the
effective bill.

may Weber called my attention to Sunday’s ldaho State Journal, snowing
Pierre Pulling's picture wherein he praises Maico nearing.Aids. Thought
you would like to have this cut of his "physog." Also his name appears
as host to some boys from Washington, 8. C. Does he appear to be

a ”humanitarian" as Nicholas U. lift stated in his article, that he

18.

Thought you would line to Know that the little aligator, about which
I wrote, after being in his new home ll days, suddenly died — I think
he died on the llth. The girl in the office stated that he seemed to
be doing all right, and When she returned from work that night, the
little thing was dead. She thought perhaps it was too hot. They
had,it in the bathtub, with water at the foot, so that it could go

in and out of the water. The girl said that she will not permit her
boy to buy any more of these aninals as She, herself, thinks it is
not right to tame them from their natural homes, and sell them in
stores.

I will write to the American humane Association in Denver and ask
for the leaflet on transportation of animals in railways, and thank
you for telling me about it.

They sent me a plastic-bound book on organization of a humare society,
which I wish we could have here, but it would be a tremendous task

to get one started, for a person who goes to work. SuCh an organiza-
tion should be formed by people who can stay home during the day, and
would enjoy contacting similar friends. I would not ash my landlady,
as I Know she does not line animals. Inasmuch as I have to carry
Snazzy up the stairs, when I have a huge bag of groceries from the
super market, I put Snazzy in the top of the bag, which she seems to
enjoy. I showed Mrs. bistline how cute snazzy looked sitting on tOp
of the items (which were all wrapped or in bags) and she her comment
was, “It might be cute, but not sanitary." my little dog is clean,
and I would never thinK that about her. The veterinarian one time told
me that yuan one's pet can get more germs from a human than one would
get from a pet.

It’s after work now, and I think I have covered everything I had in
mind to write about.

I do so hope that we will have a humane slaughter bill, after all the
efforts put forth.
Very sincerely yours,

,— I 7 ‘A ’\ _. If} 1 f‘
Colmée it c414
(WW/[mint elf/Ex 12‘ We?) Amel ia Scne l 1

 




Dox 255, Pocatello, Idaho
July 28, lﬁbd

ﬁrs. Louise Stevens and/or

Mrs. Eadeleine Bemelmans /
society for Animal Protective Legislationy/
745 Fifth Avenue, Rm. 812

New Yora Z2, h. Y.

Dear Friends,

I enclose letter from Franh bnurch to May Weber,
Which I received from her when I Went over Friday to have her
sign the letters which I wrote, of which I sent you copies.

,Also copy of letter from George Smathers to my
brotner-in-law, in Florida, stating that he favors the purposes
of this legislation and will give his views his fullest
considerationxwhen it comes before the Senate.

for

Also a lengthy letter from Spessard L. HollandA/which
I will have to compose a rebuttal for nim(“estley) to sign and
send to him, probably tomorrow night, when I will have more
time, and my material with me, to enable me to write what I want
to say. USDA I presume is the U.°. Dept.Agriculture? He is
in favor of the period of another 2 years to elapse.

Would you send my brother-in-law in rla. a set of the
editorials for himself, to read; have you sent a set and corresp-
ondence to Mrs. Rharp (I sent you her new address on St.Char1es
Fl.)-also it would be a good idea for Why deber to have a set of
editorials.

I heard on the radio that the battle against rabbits in
Bingham County starts today. Extension.Agent Weston (believe his
name appears in the artiCLe which I sent to you)stated that they are
putting out poisoned alfalfa tips on the path which the rabbits will take
in their onslaught against the farms. Poor little things, while they
no doubt are ruinous to the crops, I hate to think of them dying a
horrible death with poison and having to go through agony; lying in the
broiling hot sun suffering. I wonder if the Boise humane Society looks
into these methods, so that the situation is handled properly. If itya
poison that Kills them before they Know what has happened, it probably”
isn't so bad, and that's what the humane societies should find out. But if
it is a poison that would give them intense pain and suffering, a step
should be put to that method. Remember last fall they Went on a clubbing
rampage. I guess the people out here are not friends of humaneness and
that most of them have been brought up in ignorant surroundings, and if
their "fathers did it, it is probably all right for them, too." Does your
clipping service cut out such write-ups, as this would entail?
with best Wishes, I am Very sincerely yours,

PS It’s already seorh and I want to write other leggersfjﬁdigb (ﬁjﬁzz

 




«.32.:

I I ‘ :‘5-
51‘ 1,. I r‘: ‘1 '1
txi‘dw 3'!

Q. "~,‘ 7
ﬁjﬁﬂmgf' 3w .L-nslg In... a
p. ; *r _

. '94-: V'f' ( .; ."7 a.
4i- ?" Q‘Mm- . .m. in. no

Mk .'.
e'II .‘ 1"???" , .-P"N,“"“
8..“ .Lnngn if; 1‘1" 1“"- 1"V
4

fﬁhanmw 5 “1‘
. ,__.

mr~e I
. 5.
".¢.\:4 m

EEEI'

v.1 .1 x5. I;

as «I»:
J}' g,-

1+1.) .
%h ’41 m 1’1”": . . ‘ i; V, ,. : I" 5....“ :1. I .5; . II :1“, 3/: I I 5. if; A .. ~‘ ;4 _' ‘ 73-1: '7‘. ,_:'.1,' 3. a it}: If it $.11??? 1'3: iifﬁ

a. I»

5.1.1.?

I
. (a;
1‘23“ .- ”.753
.3»: I uh“;
Aghi—l-f’ ‘y' a! . ){.

«'9

.; :31},

931?}4» 5:55:69

;. i
Zaéﬂm

g?

9” IrEIEE PEEP QEEeEiEE Eamaa LEE Iuvwi wgﬁi ng Eire 3:.7-1-FI IEﬁ
'EEEE pEEEFS. bEE I EOEIE EEOE EEEI " * “ " M"~‘ II . EEEEIEI
ERIE; III cm; {I‘VE
Eﬂk I

by $33 V13 ' I I ~ 7 1’1; 4;: Ci’g‘zXII ﬁz ibE I‘L‘Mﬁ ”Iii: {3
(3 EmIJIEI be (III? 3183;? :f’: .- ;.;";:""‘:I"’I’E:3,,I"IE IIETII‘IEE III; III” E'E
“EL II”! III: II} III: II; C:‘II.‘1,; -' I I I it.

WIT} {II3
@173:

“I
L.
:3:

EIIIIIII: * .~ - ”{3}“ g”
YWﬁrad I '7 ﬁle???“ *' .T' , In. "V ‘ '1‘ Quiz 1 '. T5:7é I V ‘ . 34:11; :1”? {X 13535
I‘lEWI

I a*1¥ aEI*I,I§ ﬁ‘ “ EIEEEEEI iﬁ my heEIIEI

IEENE‘yEE IEEEE IE“ :31 yﬂu? EEEEEEE EIIEEEE. I am EIE
dad EllwﬁI :I I
am {933"

xfmh 1:;va luz-sgysérgw

4th

 




Box 255, rocatello, Idaho
August 18, 1 958

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

lhank you for your nice letter of August 10th; but I am sorry that you
contracted such a severe cold, which confined you to bed. It hardly

seems w right - working so hard for the animals - that you should have had
to suffer the discomforts of a cold. I could not maKe out the postal
station, that you mailed your letter from, in the mountains. I had friends
in WestlHurley, that I used to visit; and stayed in various places at
Sunset liarK, Haines Falls; also with friends I had in Cold Brook. Probably
you Know of these names. I have friends, also in Kingston.

I can well imagine, being so busy, that you were unable to send the
humanitarian letter to those people for whom I write letters, to give them
first-hand Know1edge, and also apprise them of what they were requested to
do, which resulted in the many letters I wrote for them to sign.
is

'lhe name I was trying to spell for yoE/- Albert Mylroie, lZSb E. Iﬁhitman,
Hocatello. I believe he is the % County Extension Agent, in charge of
the poisoning campaign against the rabbits. I heard over the radio es-
terday and this morning, that the program has now been suspended,- ‘ the
rabbits have gone baCK to the desert. It has something to do with the
weather - either rainy, windy, or colder. Will see if I can get an Idaho
State Journal and see if there is anything in it, that would give you de-
finite information. Yes, strychnine is a very cruel and painful poison.
Whenever I have Snazzy out, the thought comes to me, that as San she rounds
the corner of a certain building, wnicn contains a snow room of a bearing
manufacturer, that that the man who is manager, and a particularly nasty
individual, might put the stuff on the narrow ledge at the bottom of their
show window, and Snazzy sniIIing there, would inhale it or get it on her
mouth. I always 100K to maKe sure there is no powdery substance, but if
Snazzy got there first, and got it on her mouth, it would be too late. I
have never seen it, but surmise it's a white powder whhzn I could easily
detect. But it is odd how the thought always comes to me, at that corner,
and I watch Closely other places wnere she goes in gravel next to a lumber
warehouse, belonging to my landlord.

{1%va SL- ' unecch 5“ 8"me‘71
I want to send a c0py of tnekedi torialsAto my brother-in-law, who asked in
his letter wasn't I over—doing it - assuming he means by writing frequently
but the editorials will show him that I am not, and I will write him that
the :en in Washington are there, to do what the citizens want--not what they
want, and if the demand is great enough by the people, they xtxxxxatmnsxx
in order to save face, they have to delthe bidding of the peOple.

I have a reply from the annx HrSpecial Counsel to the President" which I
have given to Jeanne Tharp to see, along with my letters to the President,
and she has promised, also, to write the White House. I am, indeed, very
happy, that the good bill passed the Senate, and I have started to formulate
a letter to the 43 Kind and good men who voted against the study bill.

I admire Senator Humphrey, for his good fight, and Kind thoughtfulness for
the animals. track side
Last Friday night as I was passing the dpéﬁxpdrtﬁdﬁ of the baggage room,

 




-2-

LA

I could smell some ”animal", and paused, to behOld a young pigveﬁ a KXKEKX
crate just long enough, and narrow enough. 3amexxauxix.A husband and wife
(tourists changing trains for West Yellowstone) stood there, too, and said
they thought it was a pity that the poor thing did not appear to be able to
turn around. The flies were on it in hordes, and when it opened its eyes,
the flies were sitting on the eye-ball,—so to avoid them, the pig kept; its
eyes closed. A wooden container, made as part of the inside of the crate,
waxanxxhaxpigkxx in the corner was at the poor animal's posterior end.
These people said the animal would leave on the morning train; that it could
turn around for the water. The animal made several attempts to stand up,
only tossit down againzand made wean attempts to shake its tail to chase the
flies. I started to talk to the poor thing, and it put its snout through
the spaces between the (wellpmade) crate, grunting as though he was agreeing
with me that he was a poor piggy,zand would soon be on the train. The
baggage man came axnn upon the scene, and saxdx Climbed up on the baggage
carrier (cart) and said that the XXEKX ticket, Mason City, lowa; which I
saw, was where it came from, enroute to Eden, Idaho. There appeared to be
a lot of nuggets in the crate, but not being a farmer, I assumed they were
some kind gngiﬁ'led food spread on the bottom of the crate. There was a
burlap bag§ov r he tOp of the crate, which had several slats removed,
probably for the purpose of putting food and water in the crate. These
people stated they thought it was inhumane for the animal, and did we have a
humane society. I informed them that we haveriot, but that I am a member
of several humane societies, including the Nb Antivivisection Soc. in Sos-
ton; also that I have been writing to our elected representatives in
Washington in behalf of the humane slaughter bill. The lady stated that
sne has a friend back home in bincinnati, who has written the papers Iavor-
ing humane slaughter, and advising readers, and as many peeple as possible,
to write Washington.l mentioned that I do not think the peeple out here, who
deal with animals are very humane, as they do as their fathers had done. The
gentleman, then said that he does not think that any of us are very hunane.
He stated that the Chief of Police should be notified about that poor pig;
the lady became upset and said she thought it was going to die, whicn, in
turn upset me very much,21nd I said that I could make inquiry of the Sheriff.
Then they went away, as the husband said he could not stand the 'pig' smell.
I went to my car and sat there a few minutes to think,2and my thoughts led
me to the belief that I would mane a terrific fool of myself if that Pig was
crated according to specifications, and in case the crate was a prOper one.
I visualized my calling the police and the Sheriff, and these men ganging up
on the busy Railway Express people, and the trouble I might get into. Then
I went home and took Snazzy out, and attended to my shOpping; and got my
laundry ready which I do in the apartment wasning machine Friday evenings;
by that time I had regained my composure, and set the matter aside, with the
thought those peOple wmuld be comfortably seated in their car,x~hicn waits
here for the connection from Ugden. Meantime at the depot, an acquaintance
of mine came up to me with a greeting, saying she had seen me go through the
depot. I mentioned the pig to her, and she agreed he looked cramped,13ut
did not know what we could do about it, and walked off saying, “I'm sorry I
saw it." It was really pitiful how those flies were pestering it; even at
the ears where there was a tag through the ear—~or a metal marker strip—-
but the way the flies were walking over its open eyes was a pity. The though.
did occur to me that, “Suppose the same condition obtains when they are on a
farm, it is no worse than in that crate." I thought when this piggy grows

up, he will go through the same thing his ancestors have, but I hope humane
slaughter methods will be in operation by that time.

 




-5-

I do hepe that I am not tiring you, reading this, cut I felt youxvouki

' ‘ erected H
be int 0 . address

Did I tell you in a previous letter that l passe<ihx the Reuse on holheer
Street, in south Park, and saw a nice,\vell-Kept dog in the yard; and that
a child was nearby, and a lady from inside the door eyeing me; and that

I asked the little boy if that was his dog, and heanswered, ”Yes" and .1
mauling the dog remarked ”See how gentle he is!" I asked him wnat he said,
and he repeated his remark. I intend to go past there again. I could

step in on the pretext that"I heard some one had a dog for sale, but

was not sure of the address." In that way I could learn whether they are
new occupants of the premises, and whether they have other dogs.

I enclose tne letter from The White House. Ferhaps you could tell me -
the envelope hears a ea stamp with the American flag,xvhich is different
from the ad stamps we have here. Is that stamp solely for the use of the
President, or is it in circulation in post offices, elsewhere?

I was able to talk to Mrs. Tharp Kan for a minute, and she said that she
wants to read the copies of the last letters I wrote, including those to
the President, and write one to the rresident, herself, but the minute

she tries, the man sne works for is bobbing around her desk and craning
over her shoulder. So she might have to write her letter to the President
by hand.

‘4%wu,ﬁhinxx%rwuao
(

I trust that your are henefitting from y ur stay in the mountains, and
that by the time you receive this letter, you will be fully recovered
from the cold. bpeahing of the mountai s, fills me with nostalgia, but
yesterday I went to a new building de elepment, high over the north part
of the city, and the view is superb./ You can look all over American
Fails reservoir and see the buttes on the desert int.he direction of.Arco.
Beyond that are the snow-capped mountains toward the Crater of the Moon
National Monument. I don't ever get to these places, as I am reluctant
to be on the highway alone, for fear of the foolhardy drivers who not
only jeopardize others' lives, but their own,:and the slaughter on the
highways seems to increase with every weekend.

I almost forgot: here is the letter written by Hr. Golden, legislative
assistant to Senator helland, to my brother-in—law.

I am very anxious to have copies of editorials that might be appearing in
the newspapers commenting on the passage of the bill, and the necessity for
it to be annexedx signed by the President. About 6 copies, so I can dis-
tribute thenito the others.

The White House stationery icons like vellum. Jeannie was very mucn in-
terested in merely "The white House‘i printed on the enveIOpe. It maKes an
interesting souvenir, to keep, and a remembrance in years to come of the
effort to get a humane Slaughter bill enacted into law.

I've had to write piece~meal, as Opportunity presented itself, and as it’s
ozlurM, will run along home.

with every best wisn for your recovery from the cold and expression of
appreciation for your hard work for the animals. It § wonderzul we navg ? ,
humanitarians. Best wishes to Mrs. Bemelnans, also. blnCQPQLY(itu4&J\\ Chﬂf

 




Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
August 3, l958

Mrs. Louise Stevens and/or V//’ p.5. You are to be congratular
Mrs. Madeleine Bemelmans ted for your long, hard work
vocietyﬂfor Animal erotective Legislation. and struggle in t last achieVu
hnimal Weliare InStltUte., ing the result and saving these
Lao Fifth Avenue, Room 814 food animals from cruelty.

new YorK 42, N. Y.

Dear Friends: cc. Animal Welfare Institute

Yesterday I received from Sen. Dworshak the Congressional Record in
the name of beheii; also another one in the name of”Barnes."

i am so glad for the victory which has been achieved against cruelty.

I note that the debate lasted 7 nours, and that the Senate adopted the
good humane Slaughter bill HRBSUo, passed by the House last February.

it gives m a great feeling of relief and satisfaction, for l despaired
of all our efforts being nullified, and the poor animals having no one
to protect them for another two years. It w.uid have been foolish for
the gs United States to hold out on such a measure, the cruelties of the
slaughter houses being so apparent, and the senators Knowing of the con-
ditions, yet turning a deaf ear to the necessity of humane slaughter.
They would have appeared stupid to right thinking peOple, and it surely
looked to me as though they were receiving gratuities from the packing
house lobbyist. Truth will win every time. You state it veryxvell in
the third paragraph of your printed letter "our nation's moral stature
and self-respect” which wh was what i was trying to say above.

I hOpe that you have sent Mrs. btan Tharp; Miss Weber; hrs. Whigeit in
Brooklyn; also Mr. blarence Westley, in Florida, one of these printed
letters. As we are not allowed to visit and talk in the office, d.tho
some g3 get by with it, and nothing is said, I will, however, try to see
Jeannie Tharp and ash her if she heard from you. I anisure she will
write to the President.

It is gratifying to Know that before the conclusion of the da debate 29
more Senators joined the first 43 — so finally they were won over. Surel
in their innermost selves they knew it was the only right thing to do,

in the face of the wideSpread public demand and the editorials appear-
ing in the newspapers. I am glad that I had my part in it.

I enclose letters dated July 18 from Frank bhurch to me in the name of
”chell and ”Barnes”. how fortunate I have two names to go by. Hal It
made one more appeal for the animalsrh victory agaan above our friend,
Pierre Pulling. I am so glad for this victory, too.

I enclose Clipping from the Idaho State Journal showing a poor pigeon
with an 18-inch arrow protruding from its back. i wonder why any one
who would take a picture of it would allow xzxtnxxemaXx the arrow to
remain in the bird, without notifying the authorities. AP photographers
must KnOW‘WhO the humane societies are — or xnmx a person with pity for
the bird could have taken it to a veterinarian. Poor thing is drinking
gutter water, perhaps it is feverish from an infection. Wonder if you
could trace on it, and see what can be done. Perhaps some teen-agers
did it.

a.

-\ g a t h Ca
have a prior communication on the same thing, as it tak
through channels.

:1. .. ,, , . . . . .i .
lso enClose another private and confidential communi o. doubt you

ti
es to go

 




-2-

f
‘1‘

Sunday Saturday morning, over the radio I heard about legislation for
salmon,—and my thoughts reverted to our animals having the same type of pro-
tection - but of course, I am overjoyed now, to learn that finally the US
has adopted the humane law. The legislation was as follows:

Salmon are not to be Clubbed on the head;

there is a regulation as to the length of hook that may be used, measuring
from tip to shanh; '

if salmon comes close to bank, not to use gaff hook, but it is permissible
to take hold in hand, above fishes tail.

The above legislation has been handed down to the Fish Commission.
Also live minnows are not to be used for bait, but dead minnows and dead
fish are permissible bait.

I went over to Mrs. Tharp's desk this morning, with some papers in my hand

pretending to have her decipher a name, and told her that l have the Con—
gressional HGCOFG irom Senator Dworshak; and managed to ask if she has had

the good news from you that the good humane Slaughter bill passed the

Senate, and she commented that she has not been to the PO for several days,

and ”goody; I am.glad." I mentioned that you are now requesting in a printed
letter that everybody write urging the President to sign the bill; and she

thought that should be an automatic procedure and that he would not dare vet-

it. Then as a second thought, she said, "Just the 3 me it’s best to make

sure, I suppose, because you don’t Know what he will do." Her new address

is 155 Charles Vlace, and you know, Mrs. Stan Tharp.

My aunt's; May Weber's; and Clarence Westley, I am sure you will find in

your files, from copies of letters I have sent to you.

i should have liked to have been present to hear Senator Humphrey argue the
cause, and I imagine you ladies were present. There must have been some
very anxious and doubtful moments to live through. He must be a very fine,
high type man to be associated with. have

I have been avoiding Swift's, but buying Libby's hoping that they had humane
Slaughtering methods.

I see that Dworsnak was for the study bill; since 29 more senators joined
the first a3, does it leave only 9 for the study bill. Are these 9 among
the 40 listed? The arguments must have been very convincing to ge win over
the additional Z9,

I am.going to urge my brother~in~law, (llarence Westley, not to vote for
Smathers in Florida, if he is up for renelection, as he was for the study
bill.

Also I note among those of the so for the study bill, Ives and Javits, and
I will have to tell my aunt to be on the lookout if he is on thelallot for
re—election not to vote for him and to caution her friends. Elease be
sure and send her about 6 of the August 1 printed letter, so that she can
distribute them among her friends.

Besides writing to the Hresident for myself and the others I will write to
Senator Church and thank use him for his letter, and vote.I am certainly
surprised at Dwershak, who is a the Republican senator. Uld Nicholas ﬁééa
Ifft should publish something now in his BUZZ of the BERG; and Pierre
Pulling on Perry Swisher's lntermountain & nlameda Enterprise also.

Very sincerely yours, Cauu%2e

 




Did

stopped in ”rent c1 tne :,~a< merKeo 1119. A 1itt1e

and

street and a Women 1n31<11' wee eyeing me. I asked

the,

7-an ,-..,

Box 255, Pooa te1lo, Idaho
August 3, 11.15 , 3

,1

ar3.Cnristine Stevens and/OT

ﬁrs. Madeline E meimans

Society for ﬁnimai Erotective
745 Fifth Avenue
New Yor K Z2 N. Y.

”ﬂ

Beer rriends,

Somehow I typed "cc. Mrs. Louiee Stevens“ which you wi11 see

‘corrected. In my' letter to y<n 01 13:31 nignt 33:: vo1eer1nv if
+

addressed my envelope ”Mrs. Louise 1Levrn3 3n1/or' etc. mus.
a bre1n storm. - ‘

From y03r printed 1etter of ﬁugnst 1, assume won were
Senate floor for tz1e period of / nonre of tne eeba1e

1.3

ne very «nterest13r rezo1nm wnen I can sit gown ans

\_4

greesional Recoro some evening.

ct 1ne 3111's

I sincerely trust ﬁne: the ﬁKﬁ omen: will not e e
1 0V1sion3 of tne

1,

.L

passage, althoug en you state 1131 tne1e11ectiW p
biil remain unchanged.

.1
J.
1

Enclose copies of 1etter3 1 an Mr 13111 ng to my aunt 213. Nnige1t
and my erotner-ln-1aw tierence 1.1e311ey, for tnem to eign and in turn
air-ma 311 10 1ne Freeioent. 1 nope tney wi11 ne re-m311eo Xxxkﬁmx
to reeon the Fresident,£e;in time, and :nct he will 3ign tne 1511
3:17.120 131w.

I heard on the raoio 13331 ' .g‘ “1‘ ..1i Niiliems are
going to be on the 331101 speotive statee.

Ives
‘e 1o

and Javits of NY were for tne etuoy D11 . I tnougnt they would
r the ree1 humane slaughter b111.

1 331 o @133 tnat at 1331, after tne 1ono nerd fight, :ne anime13 will
nave v cieeent death, and not have to go enrougn untold crueltiee Before
t11eyi.€

1 tell you tn3t 1 wer to Do1beer St. in 30313

f-n— 0
(31
Q)

I
\
J

/\
1;,

(’3
(*F'PU)
(3

*UD
(‘0
1:1

ah. ngn 1reo doe, L“1 K witn browm markingS.

'1
f...’

31 co 33 111%“,
(“1" {:1

§

1 was his cog end he 31 g Q , I con1mented tnat 3e was 3
" ' " to 3m, ,- 1,1. 131.1131 pus ne C1111m ove:1‘2m3o
enjoyee. 1ne 1itt1e rox tﬂﬂﬂ
repeat wﬁnt ne 3313, union
“wee weii-L1ep1 eno we1l-fed.
‘ , ne1333r 313 1 see a pen
urnee over, or tne nooee was
It 1COKee 33 thongn some1ﬁoﬂ1
1awn. ne :‘ \Was of the newer type<w11n picture
ole rose color. rernepe enere ‘3 1 new occupant of
will go asgain, ea? 1 eou13 make a: *3 that 1 near'

a:
G)
if} N" U '

:1 :11

NJ?)
«'2.

(z , n... .;
§ .
..

 




was 1 far 1319 a1 11131 21118
want : ﬂQN.‘ inen 1 wi11 1earn
‘ mg about 1118 1ady vho n

as
nave JG? 3, ﬁvg, a1
ave n' f v: A g,.

acwn 15 tug Ma<uum1 110m underneath '; - effice W1816 1
a traim ride, no d0u.11, in a rate. 7~ W3~ pu1‘1ing up
‘121 1BR when, presuman1y, 1ney broug1t .'1 r the 1111153

I wil1 1‘ g 1*» 1 E y 9 ., a ;_,. '- * during 3W
coffee ‘ ,11 * 81 1 -=» 1 » xv ‘.i a a i wyes Wt ﬁrday are good
and 1%: 1 ‘ 33* ea, " ‘ ‘, 1 'ﬁ@» 16 111.118u.1M111ng
my CO:

It‘s almo 31 uﬁ“ and 1
we mas darﬁ Diotches
n61 neck her 111 13 Sp gave
manufac1ured by 31. Mar , :11- 1
I remember ccrractl r “ '
‘ gave hihﬁ severa1
hing
as

H,

O Q) I...”
3:35
(0 ‘- 1'
.~ 1;
(3.1
0) 0 r1

I-‘- if)

(x,

('1 1.1. U1
' :1
(“1

[N

r "t
N

(\1

”-14

NJ

:3 I" _ .
a bit. *ie 13 F: :1, 5 - 3 3»~ g~~ 1% ,«war
called, and i 1‘ ' 1 ~ .. 1 7133 gisa Always
HC1‘1 to do ,. 1 3 A '

iodene smarts “» “a 7‘ “ 31 p1
tacre sue VT: .“;2.g 1. V dame
ﬁreﬂd; and .‘ 3-; I .= ‘f‘ £10n1 of ,
119 on mgr *1 1713174 1;“ : 71110m1 §m1¢13.
‘ out he " i; on: “1»1 m'"* me,

L.)
(«i
r J

1 1
1

1m
ckmw

-3
5+ CL CL H H) (0

3C8
a11

-4

17‘ :13
2:211). (*1 113 m

C)“ “Q
”—1. ,1
re a
M H» Mo

<1:
U)
1;»

A

'...
p...)
11.;

K» r a ‘ I :1 -J v“ .1 '3 ."\
1Ou 1ao1es 1111
tremandous

cn€11

‘3' .3 1- _—\ a ' ‘ "“ ‘— u

10 W1 L6 1 . ?_1. we: Qumran for
1 r ;«1 W; 2 . , A. ' '

iijFSL 811; . - «2.: j 1: 111;: @0113 I138;

mama 01 La ,3“ ‘Piw’x‘ﬁ him 1 “ 1*

’ﬁﬂr
J. i 9.4le

 




 

June 9, 1958

Eiiaa Amelia Sehali
Bax 235
PEEEEEIIE, IEEEE

J

5

Eear 4 iEE Schal1,

EhankzyEE fer year letEEr Ef*EEy 26th ané June 2nd.
I am enclaaing Senator Talmaéwe’ letter Which ynu asked
E0 hava returnaﬁ. I fEEr EEEE SE mater EumpurEV'rmcEives
Es vEry many lettera EEE4 cern:.ng hamana Elaug hEEr that hiE
5E3? may havE ever1amked yEEr :requast EE return E“. PulliﬂgEa
melumn. 1 think it is 1:95t net E0 sand to $9 buay an
EffiCE as a SEnaEEr’s 15 ﬂﬂyﬁﬂlﬂb whic yEu nave Ea have
returned.

Ea E111 lmak fEerrd Ea WEE mg what EEG deg? arE feﬁ.
Thank yam fer sending Ehe EEEEEE an EEE pear heifera, EEich
EE EE11 kgepwcaﬁfidanEial.

In answar EE ymur quegtian Ebaut eEhEr mark done by EEiE
SEE iaty, gnu are right in wuwwawiw; EEEE’EE dEEGEe all 0f
Eur Ci EEEE E0 EhE Eumxnv S11v"v a? legislaEiGn. It is more
than enough.wmfk3 If only EE can get the E5313 out 0E Cammitteal

‘Eith many thanks far your continuing efforts far the
Eills. I hapa EEEE you EwE ayziEvg to Senator Lyndon B. Johnsaﬂ
and Sanater Senatar‘EiljiEE .Knawland, as an Egested in our
last circularilatter.

Sincarelys

Secretarwareaaurer

 




Edeho

Ch31stine Stevens
eitv for unlu l Prat ective Legislatie1
1 'fth avenue, 15L031812
22, E. Y.

‘7“ ‘3. "-' ‘~ .
gear MP3. Stevens:
'1'. "" ". J“ ‘2 x 4-4 v a... ‘n v" 7"” '3 ' ~34” ‘-
1 enclose COndeBN1181 lﬁtuEF -e ard1nb 1x anzmale, 111eh gen
keep. qder no alrcumstancee ~ infcz a to leak out 30w
,1 -1” . 4— a w . - 1? n

eet Lr a 0 Dee n1Aeu 111' ‘- 11631”: «11 e15netu3et 330

Lﬁﬁt the rules 11 my 3033. —. hence

4.1.1 .2

111.111.. ‘

3
.L 3 £1 1.) I.) O

1‘ '1'“ ;" 4“

1011' 1.1111 a)

.-

t 0.1 .t : a, V ' n“ '
.9 .
1. .. 1 ~,1 ' ’13 most'un1°11w;

I enclose _, Whigelt,

madge.

When you retr
E will keew

and I
ate note

 




Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
May 16, 1958.

Mrs. Christine Stevens and/or

Mrs. Madeleine Bemelmans ‘

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue, Room 812

NewYork 22, New York

Dear Mrs. Stevens and Mrs. Bemelmans:

I have received your printed letter of May 9th, with foot-note, and
I appreciate your writing even this, because I realize you are so
rushed in your work of trying to accomplish passage of these bills.

In the printed portion you mention local newspapers, and having had

a processed letter from Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, dated May 13

I thought I would write him, a cepy of which I enclose, and Which I
trust is satisfactory, - to encourage him in at least one nexxnnkx
citizen's efforts, as a humanitarian.

He seems to be a very fine gentleman and humanitarian,b d expresses
his concern as to the action his colleagues will take, Hﬁn that he is
going to continue his efforts to persuade them to report out his

Bill without amendments.

I thought it would be well for the Senator to have Mr. Pulling's
name on file, as being in opposition and of his association with
Mr. Swisher's newspaper. I believe Mr. Swisher is on the Idaho
Legislature, and there may be a time when Mr. Swisher is seeking a
favor, whenxﬁgnaanxﬂumphxzyx which Senator Humphrey may not see
Mr. Swi sher' 3 way.

As I have only the one COpy of the printed Buzz of the Burg and
Pierre Pulling's Lookout, I am have to ask Senator Humphrey for its
return.

Already it is 7PM, and as it is my laundry night, it means I have to
rush.

Thank you for your concern about my car; it has been repaired, and all
is well again. I keep it out front, now, where I can look down at the
curb and see it under the street light, from my apartment.

The weather is beautiful now; the setting sun is casting long shadows;
the snow is gone from our nearby mountains, but there is still some on
the higher altitudes. We have a great deal of sunshine here; evenings are
cool (and not stifling); there are many scenic short trips for a Sunday;

and soon I shall be home to Snazzy.

My best wishes for ultimate success in our efforts for the animals.

Sincerely,
P.S. Please excuse this 4g%,é%_4§u@£?
'scratched' up letter. Amelia Schell

 




I

P.S. When i go home I will get the pictures 1 had processed recently

which I took of the animals at our Ross Park, last fall. khesex i had
only one set printed; they were in my camera since last fall.

The pictures show chunks of stale bread (about which 1 believe 1

wrote you) being fed to them, as their food, with apparently no
variety.

1 believe 1 thm wrote to one of the humane societies of which i am
a member, which stated it would report the matter to the National

Humane Society in Denver. 1 will have to consult my files to bximx
refresh my memory.

But in case i did mention to Mrs. Stevens, at the Animal Welfare In-
stitute, she might be able to discern these cunks of bread which

are lying on the ground, and which a deer is consuming; also the
stale loaﬂes of white bread in the pail.

on a Sunday
1 have been out to the park quite recentlyL/but it was very chilly, and I

did not remain long. I was asking the attendant about a Manx cat belonging
to a friend of mine, hakng missing, and if he would he on the lookout for

it inbaseﬂit should happen to go into the park for food, 1 am on the
lookout wnerever i go, and we run down any clues. I do so hope the pet
will eventually find its way home.

AS

 




Box 255
Pocatello, Idaho

Mrs. Christine Etevens and/or

Mrs. Madeleine Bemelmans

Society for animal Protective Legislation
7h5 Fifth avenue, Room 812

New York 22, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Stevens and Mrs. Bemelmans:

I received your letter of May 22 and thank you for re-
turning letter from Senator Humphrey.

I am returning cepy of my letter to Senator Humphrey,
of May 16th in answer to his of May 13. This cepy was
for your files.

You also returned my letter of May 16th to you, and I
am sending it back to you.

I hope that Senator Humphrey will return to me my only
cepy of Farr Pierre Pulling's article in his Lookout,
clipped from the Intermountain & Alameda Enterprise,
Also my only copy of the printed "Buzz of the Burg" by
ING.

I note your comments regarding deer and will ask the
attendant at our Ross Park if they also are fed hay. He
told me that their food is very poor; and told other
out~of~town visitors to the park that they only get the
bread, as the city cannot afford proper food for them.
I hepe they are fed decently. The Humane Society in NY
wrote that they would have the National Humane Society
in Denver follow it up.

The attendant told me that vandals killed a beautiful

goose, which left a stream of blood; also that they stole

the other one and a woman reported seeing it a goods at

a house of trashy people who are always in trouble and the
police put it in the pen at Ross Park and the attendant told
him it looked so much like the one the park had; upon investiga-
tion it was the park's goose. »

I am sorry that there is no news on the humane slaughter bills,
and am so in hopes it will be acted upon favorably.

Have often wondered what other work your society engages in

in connection with animals; or do you continue working on the
one phase, these two bills.

iting me and returning the photographs

y 5‘ 5,7 \ << an
ﬂzmullxi/éﬂjkég

Thank ou again .for w
of theydeer. gincerel

 




Box 255, Fooatello, Idaho
May 16, 1958

Senator Hubert h. Humphrey \

Senate Office Euilding

Washington, 3. C.

Dear Senator homphrey:

Thank you for your various letters, ending with yours of May 13.

You might wleh to know that I have been able to influence several of
my friends here, to write the laaho Senators; also the fourteen
members of the Committee. ’

My aged aunt in Brooklyn.aleo exoreesed her anxiety to help these
unfortunate animals, as she has been following the subject of humane
slaughter legiolation. ‘Ao she does not type she hue asked me to

type her letters, which she signed and melkﬁout to the two New York
Senators and to the fourteen members of the Committee. The first set
of sixteen letters stated recommendations that the bills be enacted
into law in this session of Congress; and the second set of letters
stated that definitely she wanted the companion bills paseed and not
an amended bill, which would only further delay passage of the bills.

I realize and appreciate how tirelessly you have been working on this
tremendously important legislation, and I do so hope you will at

last succeed in persuading your colleagues on the Committee to report
out your Bill without aoendmente. It is indeed amazing that a

great and progressive country such as this ehoold leg far behind the
many foreign countries which have had humane slaughter legislation

in effect for over 80 years; it should be apparent to every one that
help should be given to theee poor terrified animals to protect them
from unnecessary cruelty before slaughter. There are many who have
no idea of what is going on (I had no idea that these food animale
‘were suffering cruelty on the slaughterhouse floor); and others who
wouldn‘t bother to concern themselves w callous individuals ~ who
leave ouch thioge to some one else; thoughtless people. This humane
slaughter matter should be given greater publicity through the medium
of the newspaper, the radio and even TV} to graphically bring to the
attention of millions of Americans that it is their duty to see that an
is put to this barbaric cruelty, and that the animals are given their
right to a humane death. It most never occur to many people that
animals have a soul and a oonecloueneee.

My brother«inelaw in Florida has been interested in what I have written
and asked me to type his letters to the two Florida senators and the
members of the Committee. When the need was apparent to express om-
phatically'that the companion bills be passed without aeendmento, I
typed his second set.

In February I wrote to the Editor of the édaho State Journal, Foca»
tello; KXKXXK Mr. Nicholas G. lfft,~‘ ' publishee my letter in his
column "Buzz of the Burg”.

A.simllar letter to the Alameda a lntermoontain Enterprise, Pocatello,

 




.2-

published by Parry Swiaher, feund its way ta Mr. yierre Pulling. who
wrote in appoaitian in his column "Pierre'a Leakout", at the same
time, admitting that he kneW'little or nathimg abeut the bill. En.
clased is thia column; also-the comments by Mr. Nicholas G. lift

in his “Buza of the Eurg” after Mr. Failing cemmunicated with him,
in which he anmmnu states that Mr. Pulling is a humanitarian.

These will be very interesting to you, and l wnuld ask that yen
kindly return the printed column “Pierre’s Lookcut”; also the printed
calumn ”Buzz 0f the Burg”. The carbon cepies of my letter to
Measrs. Nichalas Q. Ifft and Perry Swisher, you may keep for your
1‘1183.

1mm SEE/M mSw-TW'
I vaported an the abavz to the Society fiE/éﬁimal Protective Legisla—
tion in my native New York City, and Mrs.~ﬁ7ﬂﬁemefm3397~999$4dent,
wrete a iettgr ta Mr. Pierre Pulling, ta which he replied that he
would not retraet any of his statements.

Opp9$itian such as this and that of the Administration and the Ad»
miniatratian $upp0rters on the Committee is very dishaartening, but
it means hnmanitarians ané all those interested should not relax
their efforts in their demands for passage of the Bills.

ﬂy best wishes are far the $uccess of this legislatian.
ranewed
Wipg/hest wishes and exPressian of appreciation for all you are doing,

I am‘ . M

Sincerely yours,

(Miss) Amelia Schell

 




BOX 255, Pocatello, Idaho
May 12, 1958

Mrs. Christine Stevens and/or

Mrs. Madeleine Bemelmans

bociety for Animal Protective Legislation
7h5 - 5th Avenue, Room 812

New York 22, N. Y.-

Dear Mrs. Stevens and Mrs. Bemelmans:

Thank you, Mrs. Stevens, for your nice note written by

hand, on a card, and for returning Senator Humphrey's
letter.£12mmsmzrixashdmxtmmzrmnmzmmbnanmanﬁnnnmeXQ
snanﬁnyonnnntnzmhnnrxnapiyzmz

Senator Humphrey wrote a nice letter to me, in reply to

my letter to him, in the name of Mrs. Barnes (you know,

my former marriage name). You will note he also signs

"Best Wishes.". I enclose it. It is dated May 7.

He informs me that the Committee has completed the hearings
and,(like you and I, and other humanitarians,)is earnestly

hoping that they will report out this legislation so the
entire Senate can vote on it.

The reason I ask for the return the of the letters, is because
I understand you only wiai to note their replies, but do not
care to retain the letters, for file. If you Wish to retain
the letters, I can make a copy for my file, and then, you

keep the original.

tter from Herman E. Talmadge to me in my own
name. v»,,»--- mailed from washington, May 8, 1958.

I have noted on them, XKXHKKX the name replied to, in order to
file in its proper file.

Jehn J. Williams, May 9, er to to me in the name of "Barnes".

He, like Senator Humphrey,are in favor of this legislation

and will vote to report the bill to the Senate. I can imagine how

Senater-Humphrey— apprehensive Senator Humphrey must be, as S.

1&9? is hﬂg own bill. Senator Humphrey sent me a copy of his

printed Newsletter, dated April M’lh listing reports on various
issues, and projects. I did not think you wanted to be burdened with
reading it.

I can well imagine how busy you are these days.

 




-2-

I am also enclosing Sen. John J. Williams! letter of May 7,
to me in my own name. You will note it is the same as his
letter to me under the name of "Barnes".

They must also be swamped with Work, but I presume their clerks
and secretaries fine-comb all the corresPondence, and only
those personally written reach the senators.

I am so provoked.with my aunt. She only had to sign the letters I
wrote (of my own volition) for her to sign; KKKXXXKKEXKXEKKKXXX

I believe I affixed the stamps; and seal and mail them. She likes
to get along with the least resistance. She wrote"not to bother"
her about the animals. Sheﬂlikes animals, but it can be overdone."
Also, that she”has to look out for herself, first." She‘will
probably be very angry with the sharp tone of my letter, but I could
not help it. She is so completely selfish, I think, and only
thinks of herself, and never fails to point out that she has
"arthritis”. She is a person who has nev 5 had to go out an earn
one cent of What she has, having come to gar by inheritance. I
would consider myself very fortunate to be in her circumstances.
She has no those! to tell her what to do; can come and go as she
pleases; go to bed at 9PM Without worrying about whether she will
get up on time to get to work in the morning. Or on Monday morning
wishing it were Friday, or glad mornings are gone with only the
afternoon left, and such as we peeple who have to adhere to a
schedule, and at the end of the day are worn out.

XXEMX I should not burden you, but just have to explode about her.

I do so hope that our work will not be in vain, and that the senate
will vote favorably on it. You folks have been working so hard

to bring about this humane legislation, and it seems a pity thatit
has not been made a law years ago-use a policy of a nation such

as this.

You might like to see a cepy of 5 letters I wrote at the request of
the General Manager of the UPRR_(Mr.D.F.Wengert,Portland) to all
employees, on;behalf of the railroads, which is self-esplanatory.
Please return it. Our legislators will be busy with this bill, also.

My best wishes to both of you.

Sincerely yours,

Amelia Schell

 




April 1h; 1938

BBBB ABBliB “BBBll #
Box 2B5 1, BB”
PBthBlla, IBBBB """

DBBr ES“ BBB fEBhBll,

EBBBB yam for yBur lBttBr of April 8th. EBBIBBBB i3 SBBBtor
Chureh*B BBBiiBgtBn HBBBBB'BBBBB yBB BBBBB BB haVB rBtBrBBd.

I th B IBBBBB fr m Br. Pulling saying BBBB BB BBBldB‘B BBBBBB
his BBBBBBBBBB, BBB BB BBBEBBBB B BBBtBB BB “BBBBBB BBBrBB; BBBBBB
BB Bomzht BB bBliBtlB BBB BBBBBB Slaughﬁa”f Bill, pBrBlg BB BBB BBBBBBB
of BBBB BBB bBBB BBiB in favor of it, BBB BBBuBiBg BBpporBBBB Bf rem
mBiBiBg BBBBBBBBBB I BB think it iB'bBBBBB BBB BB BBB BBBBBB
BBBBymBBBiy BBBBBBB it giVBS BppBBBnts BBBBBhiBg tangible Bo BritiBiBB.
Bbuld BBB BBBBBBB yBu Bnrk for abjecﬁ BB year BquBrt Bf lBgiBBBBiBB?

CBBBBrBiBg your BBBBBiBB BbBut puchBsB Bf mBBB By BBB BBVBBBBBBBB
the GOVBrnmﬂﬂt Bctually purchBBBB B BBlBBiVBly BBBlE BBBBBB BB‘BBBB,
and it ism BB BBB BBBBBBt3 fBr the BBBBd FBBBBB BBBtly. BBBBBBB, BBB
biBgBBB BBBBBBB BBB dB moat cf BBB BlBBgBBBrinB B11 BBBB BB kBBp their
GBVBerBnt BBBBBBBW B, BBB BBB bill BBBBirBB BBBB BBB BBBRBB Belling BB
the GBVBBBBBBB BBBB BBB humBBB BBBBBBB BB B3] BBBBBlB in B1? thBiB'plBBBB.
ThiB BB the rBBBBB Why BB large a pBrBBntBBB Bf anmBIB BBuld ha prBthth.
The biEl BEBB BBBVBBBB that BBBBBBly BlBBB BBBBAB BBBB BBB3.3 BB BB BBBBBBB,

mBhB public will knBB that 1% BBB been BBBBBBIB ﬁlﬁunhEBXBBB

Our clipyimg BBrvicB BBBB as B capy of your lBttBr printed in full
by'IBGe BB BBBBBVBB credit far giving this BchB t0 BBB humane BidB
after BB printed Br. Pulliag'a iBBcBBrBtB BBBBBBBBBB 1B.BBBBBitiBB BB
thﬁ bills

It BBB nicB to BBBr BbBut Emily.

BBBt Biﬁhﬁﬁg

SincBrBly,

SBBrBtBryuTrBBBurBr

 




PS I enclose Washington lieport from _
Sen; ChurCh, which _

kindly return after ' BOX 255, Pocatello, Idaho
reading. I glanced thru it, April 8: 1958 .

h rr‘edl .
Deariﬁrsf'Stéyens @ Animal Institute
" . MN,

" Q Society of APL aw W
Dear Mrs. Bemelmans henna:
Thank you Mrs. Stevens, for your letter of.April l, which I will
answer. I have read, and will re-read as I answer, your very effective
letter to Mr. Pulling. I do not get the Idaho State Journal, as I can
never stay awake to read it through, but have asked N y weber to watch
ING's column, to see if he has any comments. I subscribe to the
Intermountain a Alameda Enterprise, and looked at Pierre's Lookout
on Friday the 4th (published weekly) but did not see anything about
animal legislation, but will scan his column more thoroughly. Howe
ever, I will watch for anything in the paper of the 11th, either by
Pierre or Perry Swisher.

I think your letter was wonderful and to the point, and you have broken
down his misstatements, just as a lawyer does in a brief. It was so
consoling to read in your letter proof that these animals are terrified
and feel pain, as shown by the "dark cutters“ from their_suffering.

I an glad that you showed as your authority packers who use the new
stunning methods; also the veterinary research.

I went to the Catholic Church masses Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights
and noted with a great deal of interest the carving on the altar of a
lamb sitting on the Old Testament, and the spear piercing his heart,

but the banner of glory and victory, depicting Christ who went silently
to his death, as does the lamb go blindly forth to its slaughter. I am
not Catholic but a friend who is, eXplained this analogy to me. Observ-
ing the lamb, I thought of our little lambs we are trying so valiantly

to defend. I brought May Weber with me (also non—Catholic) and brought
her attention to the little lamb en-the-altar- carved in the altar.

As I am absorbing every word in your letter, the thought cones to me to
let Mrs. Bistline see your letter to Pierre, a to correct her erroneous
impressions which parallel those of Pierre.

I also note that the bill will protect approximately 80% of the ani—
mals, and not 100%, and that it will apply only to packers wishing to
contract with the government. .A point I have wanted information on, is
--is all meat bought by the government, before it goes into the stores,
hence the application of the stamp indicating First Grade Beef, etc., or
does it only mean, meat that the government would buy for.the armed ser-
vices, and anything coming under government jurisdiction, and meat for the
consumption of the public does not come under the law? I think of these
animals every time I go to the meat counter in the super-markets, and of how
they die, and have their lives taken away to feed us.

I gave your letters to Jeannie Tharp to read, and told her what a wonderful
letter you wrote to Pierre Pulling, refuting his misstatements with argu-
ments to the point. I am so glad, also, that you sent ING a c0py of the

letter to Pierre, as ING has publicized the fact that Pierre is a humanitariaq

I enclose c0pies of letters I have written for my aunt to sign and send to
Senator Bllender; Irving M. Ives and Jacob K. Javits, the senators for New
York.

 




-2-

Mrs. Stevens' letter of April 4: Thank you for returning Mr. Dworshak's
letter. '
I ¢¢¢Y¢s // return copy of my letter of 3/11 to Gracie Pfost;
cepy of her letter of March 7 to me; also nnpyx memorandum of the
6-page AN ACT 85th bongress 2nd SessiOn, sent to me by Sen. prrshak,
‘which printed leaflet you have seen. These are the ones you un-
intentionally returned to me.

I don't suppose you wish the newspaper clipping of the BUZZ OF THE BURG
in which ING published my letter in toto, as it is the same as the napyx
n2 letter I sent to him, of which I sent you a copy.

I received the additional copies of editorials. I have no more of the
graphic leaflet showing the lambs suffering. The last one I have I am
enclosing to Sen. Javits, which letter my aunt will sign.

Mrs. Bemelmans? hatter of Aptil 5:

As you will note I am sending copies to Mrs. Stevens at the.Animal
Institute; also to her at the Soc., and to you. This will facilitate your
reading and answering, and I can always do this if I think of it in time.

I have not heard from Mr. Farnum, which concerns Pierre Pulling, and am
thinking it would be good for him to have a c0py of the letter you wrote
that gentleman. Perhaps he is formulating one to him, defending the
work of the NE Anti-vivisectionists, and setting him straight as to that
organization.

Just this minute I hear the bloating of a lamb; must becattle cars spotted
near the depot, waiting to go on their respective trains, or already on

a freight. Spotting a car means placing it at the loading or unloading
platform. I think I used it erroneously, as they are not here to load or
unload. Véfhdpd/ﬁﬂ¢i/ﬁf¢/W¢Yﬂfﬂg I think there must be corrals somewhere
around, where they are unloaded to feed, although I have never noticed
stock out in such places. Ihey don't bother to explain, here. People
write about leases L&T and others L.D. and if asked what the initials
mean, they don't know, and answer that you're not supposed to know as it
is not vital to wk: the correspondence. One time I asked what NWF-IZ
meant, and was told i did not have to know, but it happened to mean
Northwest Forwarder, and the 12 stands for the date. Now if I see anything,
like that, I know it specifies the kind of train, and the date.

I am glad I have been free from colds, but we have 3 nasty old men, who
should retire, aged 67-7ﬁx 75, who throw Open the windows on us girls.

I put my scarf-hat on; a leather sleeveless front-zipper jacket; and a
plastic skirt to the floor to axe keep my legs warm, otherwise my ears and
face are as cold as ice, as well as my legs, like icicles. The prevailing
wind is fromﬁhe south, which blows across the snow on the mountains, and
makes the air icy. They can leave their desks, and sometimes remain away
as long as 40 minutes, and then come back like slave—drivers, to make up
the time they were guilty of losing. 1he‘working conditions are very
unpleasant, and there seems to be a constant feud between the men and
women. The men can't stand to see us women working for the RR. and if
we visit for a few minutes at another desk, the three 'graces' (old
fossils)_will get their heads together'and Hake remarks about us girls.

 




~3-

If the girls are coming along the hallway to the office and are laughing
and talking, the one who is about 75 will run to the big flat-footed
elephantine one and say Yakkity yak, yakkity yak, here they come.

I agree with you that it would be a terrible thing to let a column
like Pierre Pullings go unanswered.

I sent him under anonymous cover, that is, just in an envelope, without
comment, a graphic leaflet, also an ediknxkakx quotations from
the editorials.

Thank you for your good wishes. It is 8PM, and little 5nazzy is
Waiting patiently for me, and the apartment is dark, and I don't
suppose she is able to see to get around in the dark, but sleeps on
one of her own personal divans, awaiting xxx the happy moment of my
arrival, and I tell her what a good girl she is; and i1 home; here is
your Emily." If she is on my bed in the bedroom, I will ask, "Where
are you?" when I discover her, I say, "0, there you are, my little
boobsie - or schnoopsie"- just whatever comes to me, which will sound
cute and she will know they are words of endearment. Then she will
kiss my hand, or kiss my cheek as I pick her up to carry her out.

She is a great companion, and we have been together since Jamuary 31,
1948. .

I do so hope that after all the hard work, the legislation will go
through to protect these poor animals.

Best wishes to both of you ladies, believe me to be

very sincerely yours,

43!. A g
a E 7 .,
/ ,‘H " -
( 4;“ (ii/J; ZQL//(

(Miss) Amelia Schell

 




Him Amalia Schall
Bax 295;
Pwawlla, Idaho

Baa-r aim 3021311,

”manic yam far your kind letﬁer of March 26% analoaing
the 1mm!“ £er Mr. Inmmhak, uh m: 3; am ramming harewith.
M gm paint mat, we are very, very bum? ham, so I am afraid
ms: did ﬁend back unintentimally copism of latwm yam had
amt far 1.13 €20 Raw. Hamid yam wish, m 5mm them back again?
ﬁﬁ'zank yam for landing X13 121m enclasmi laws-33:15

Ii: am glad “that yam brotherummlaw is £0136.“ 0f an imam, and
it 313 kﬁnd W W3 136‘ anccurage him iﬁtﬁEI‘ﬁ’Sﬁt in humana Slaughtgr
mad hefty: him as; you have: dame. I mm mat hi3 in'mwrmt will

inamma am} that M will amenmge his; friﬁrnﬁa and neighbam to
Wi‘te two.

Sincerely,

Secretarya-Weaamrer

KS. ‘mmnk you alas for ycmr gr.) 02% letter 9f Namﬁ‘: 31st and ana-
clasuma which just arrived. Artiditimal (23me of editorials
are: Ming; amt ymu undar swam m GGVEI‘.

 




W . mu.' L

9.33.1” E? . 3-3:..1‘15? L 1112?:
M ,, .' a.
mmalety fmr
V4“ V1?

.4.
NEW

AnimaL
« ‘37" ~ 111.16.?

\
I.
7"

L i

t
Y if) T k

4

34"” (‘3

V.
uLevens:

. “1‘11
x .5.

:32?

.UTOtLJ. In":

(334* L133;

z. 4.4-
.Ltr‘: L. 5.43;:

IL
The
emulﬁy

c

A‘
V

.0-

531
‘ w

C?” 3.... aw!

€' .22“
-. .12.,

uOIM’
’ﬁﬁﬂﬁ, *ut
in Lﬂe enveto
:3; 6‘ W S {i

iluence nge

(1'3":
{Lil

#1}

I

d to

in vaur
fart,-
..W

1vé

Ygu r9+urn
tn”??? I1IJ+QS

s.) ‘5
. , ('7‘ h
{:1 1.1. ‘1. +

K}

It

Etevans,

.rn.‘
7"
4,.

Secy.wTrema.,
. ~ .‘ A" . "'v, ' 'a . a
ruimc.1ve nglglat

1 “:1

1:33? LL33?
eat ec3it

M. ‘W
{J .J‘

i=3.

LL) Ldla ..i..al , iLJI :1

LL; ,3": :3, 933mm inn? 3.5.».
19y duzl't .LLVL., a}?
3 La Jaannia
LJE. ”LIMIT-.. t
431:8 lnLJJI’uWT‘

53,115.: E {3 11.1.:

MLLL‘. 53
r J 0 if
3 (1'1) 1.; ii 6?... M
Q 35 531.33.11qu
5.1.5.3 c: 311113;:

11.57;: Tilt, -3I1d
305%

A.
4.2.51“.

3
in

,,,"r
D ..J.

..r

Sam

1
W {3W

(\C lﬁegd

Ciaf «3: it. Ticgﬁmgow (/1,

7:16L La?
from me,

.‘A‘tIJI’C'

g'3trﬁ.:"):'1ic it???
have one
Fla 7"}, {7&3

m 3...... i n...

in

en

LW

(-
L

Perrine,
:3 f
0r

lEttPT

4;“? . “‘v ’0
-LL J

‘ 0
’y' ' ("c '1, W, .
{ \v‘,‘ .L Lt: FL. 4‘! '7‘

‘1‘) f'x

1nce.:31

356 ‘t

90.,1..L no

?lmriﬂ3,
enclose co;' 16
:thL E
SGDlES
L336 01“.”:
lit}

..E.
LLKJ L:

ZZZ/:2 ()W‘ié’uz L, Nﬁ/{fliﬂm

T

131 :3 L. L..911531L
Leo , 3-1.1}.ij La.) do gs. 13.21121 L ,
the tyne. I gi/sgb
Ling Halvah

LIE-:11 35‘ 1.3.3711". ..
acturera , dovntohn
ﬂﬂﬂ HOW it is $636.
Lne JEW- here buy it.
E iLemE'

4- 4- w,
, me (ju- L $3.6

+

U

x“1:;

C.
L.

Jiffy

r: :1:
Ad‘u’

I‘
p .

~ g ‘u 1“
wilt.
.._.

r
.\
‘.

I

ﬁWoryhgk to me

ma TI. 1‘5
flame . '-

1nély Le—

loves
letter
L

."fg‘W
"J

"ix/1m,
OTOLhPTwiﬂwl?”

I Will puL ﬁne
one La the ;iami
be able L0 in"
e liVES, ** Write.

mnﬁ
£31155
:1].
X ‘I
I.

.4.
4...; U

L: I.)

K’
's
l

.
LOLA

99";0 94.1. .111 I

33g @Woa/zg 9W (.6

 




22222 29 2222

2222 122122 3222211
gar-324

312344" (1313‘
“222122, 11220

22.231212“ 12 222211 of 222° 222212222
- 232211 12 222223 ta 32222 222‘ 222 12"22 13212222
m'h2 2233 21 2h2 2111 22222 3 2 2222 22 2222 22223222
2 if m2 Hr. P221222 cola: 22 221.: 22233 21 2 22313
3222 2212222 20 2122 1222222: 22 2 222211222212
3 21 112 221222 322 2122 gr221~1 in 222 12222 $3222
322222131 2232 2122 2222 22222 2 2 1f 21322r 32322
331232 2h22 122123 02 2 32 33 2«'225 22 23312 22 31222 1
11 322 22211 121 22 22022

2f2 223213 22 2322222222 3222 222122 22 22122
22-,21 22 2212 6322123 and.hnn2 2222 22 223 22 2212 22
222 “1222 3222 12221 323222 22 2222 2 2232 M23222 222
22221312 22221.

with kind 32323223

Sinc2r2139

ﬁacr2taf3~1322$2111

 




Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
March 31, I958

Dear Mrs. Stevens,
Thank you for your note on card.

I enclose reply of Frank Church U3 me in my former married name, for you
to note on your records.

Also enclose copy of my letter to Henry C. Dworshak, for your file.

You will note that I made one for you, l-for my file, and an extra copy;
enclosing to him and to Sen. Church copies of the 1957 a 1958 editorials.
Also my letter to Frank Church. ’

If"? 5! -._‘
< f‘ f '5 ‘3. ; M"
A , ~ \
w

I think my supply of editorialsin now exhausted.

I also wrote making 2 sets of letters, to the 15 members of theCom-
mittee, and enclose cepy for you. I tried not to make it look too
much like the one that I wrote for my brother-in-law in I“la. to sign.

I wrote
In the hope that May'Weber will sign/inn one ixnxntn to Church 8 Dworshak
and will run over to her house tonight for her to do so. I happened '
to have 2 small envelopes with me, and addressed them, so all she will
have to do is sign and affix stamps; if she has no stamps at home,
I will supply them. I also tried not to make these look too much like
my style of writing and in the nxxxxpxx appearance.

It is already 7:50PM and I have been writing since 5PM. When I
get home I will type all the 15 envelopes for the members; and one for
Church & Dworshak enclosing the editorials.

I must hurry along, as I have a lot of fa other things to do at home
tonight. '

I hope these letters are all effective, and that we will be successful
in getting this legislation. '

I had in mind typing letters to the 2 NY senators for my aunt to sign,
but will have to think out something, to make it appear different from
mine, and it will require concentration. She is in Brooklyn, and if I
can find the time, I will do so.

My brother-in-law asked for a letter to sign to Smathers, and I did give
him one for Smathers a l for Holland, to sign, besides the members. Hope
he did not get thewhole thing mixed up. I sent you copies of the letters
for him to sign.

Best wishes. Sincerely, ‘

”if,“ x I, F (\Y/& ﬂ

Amei ia Scheli
I passed your note with the
quoted editorials on to Jeannie Tharp when I returned from lunch. I
got it from the PO at 12 when I went home for lunch.

 




    

Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho

//// march 20, 1958
Mrs. Christine Stevensvff§//

.Animal Welfare Institute

ldrs. Madeleine Bemelmans ~

Mrs. Christine Stevens~

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth.nvenue, Room 812

New York 22, N. Y.

    
          
    
     
  

    

Dear Mrs. Stevens and Mrs. Bemelmans:

     

  

Using this method, thought you would both have a c0py of my letter,
so that in case Mrs. Stevens was at 22 East 17th, she would receive
her letter-there, without delay.

 
     

I am enclosing to each of you copies of my letter written after 5PM
March l9 to Hon. George R. Farnum, President, New England Anti-Vivi-
section Society. Mr. Pierre Pulling underrates this organization,
in his column, gﬂu/aygu in the lntermountain & Alameda ﬁngerprise
(Pocatello) and this organization is also mentioned in the "Buzz of
the Burg" by 1N6, Nicholas G. lfft, publisher of the Idaho State
Journal (Pocatello).

       
    
        

With this mail, I am sending to Mr. Pierre Pulling, without my name for
pﬂ/fﬂe/return address on the envelope, nor inside the envelope, a
copy of the graphic leaflet, from which he should be able to broaden
his knowledge as toe the cruelties inflicted upon these poor animals,
for whom I have compassion when I look at their blood-spattered faces
and the terror in their dying eyes, as they hang by the Khan chain.
They have done no terrible thing, such as humans are capable of, to
deserve such treatment. I have underlined practically everything
with a red z¢y1/¢¢ ink ball point pen, for this man to take note of,
where cruelty is mentioned; and that the animal is not dead when
stuck by the butcher.30m€ WOFdS and sentences with double and triple
underlining. ’
I was wishing I had another copy of t e ed tor’al samples to send to'
him in the envelope,-as no doubt the n§ZQ ayeéent to Perry Swisher,
the Editor of the Intermountain for whic Pierre writes his ”Bierre's
Lookout"-so he can see what civilized papers have to say, who have
papeigtelligent and humane writers on their staffs. I an glad my letter to
was a good one and took in every point, as it will give him something
to think about - if he is capable of assimilating knowledge.

    
    
    
      
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
 

I asked my neighbor—landlady(Mrs.Bistline) for the lntermountain of

last Friday, which she stated she would give to me. She said she thinks
Pierre Pulling is right; I told her by his own admission he knows nothing
about the bill, as he states that xx he has "asked for a c0py," and

that "it could rate more study.” She said that he thinks the price of
meat will go up; I referred to many foreign countries who already have
humane slaughter, as law, and She argued that wages are lower in those
countries. She said, ”They bang them on the head, anyway." I told

her that is what the legislation is about, to stun them first, that they
are stabbed and left to die with the blood running out of their bodies.

‘Also that he must be a callous br '
,_. , utish person. She excused '
she said she had to go to a meeting. I left the Editorial Sgggfgéfa%s

 
 
     
  
 
 

   

   
 




-z-

her door, together with the graphic leaflet, and when I took my

Pomeranian out, noticed that they had beenitaken in (before she

left). Saw her today on the sidewalk, at lunch, and she stated

she would return them to me. I want to send the editorials to

Mr. Farnum with my hatter, and if she returns the editorials tonight, I
will enclose and mail to him, although it will delay my letter a day.

I should have about 4 more editorials, I think, to keep one, and ,

to have the others to send, should the occasion arise, or to give/iX

to inhumane persons, to set their thinking straight. ; 1

.Also about four more of on; printed letters of January 2; January y‘
30, and February 5 for d§bme same type person to read. I don't C;
think Mrs. Ehstline is a very soft—hearted person, or cares muCh ”
for pets and animals.

Incidentally, er daughter-in-an is associated with Perry Swisher

in a book shop ‘3§€Was told that she was not a very successful
first-or second-grade teacher, here, and the parents complained

that their children did not seem to learn or know anything; and

could not read nor-write. I remember at one time she was in the
toils with the School Board, and then traveled a number of miles

to 2k Tyhee to a school there, to teach. I think there, she

taught indian opi e§3h1 yhee is adjacent to the indian reservation.
.After about a.%er 'h.a gorous Winter, she quit, and became
associated, or they both started, this book shOp. Mrs. Eistline

told me if that when she visits her daughter-in-law, she sits there
reading a book, so that she will be able to describe it to customers;
hence her reading must be done on the run.‘he story goes that the
Bistlines are not very well liked, as their business dealings were

not always on the level; and they purchased much of the sage brush
land for almost nothing from people who were desperate and are de-
veloping it, getting in the neighborhood of $2000 - $2,500 for a

lot. I think here a lot runs about 75 3100; and they bought land

at tax sales, and later profited thereby. It seems that her haxdx
apparent hardness would go hand in hand with the other spurious deals.
3he does try to be nice, however, and often invites me to sit with
her and watch TV. She has, also brought cakes and pies_that she

has made for me to try..At one time they were not supposed to be

as well off as they are today - anyway she does not have to run off

to earn her living, as l and many others must. She possesses a very
argumentative nature, and if she can dominate the tenants, she will
try. This is the nature of the person.

Staying to finish my this letter, it is already 5:30PM, but I think I
have covered everything. I wrote it somewhat on the installment plan
slipping it in and out of the machine as opportunity permitted.

My very best wishes to both ymuxamd.of you, I am

'Very sincerely yours,

(Miss) Amelia Schell

 




 

. "w
.hwnwnWQ ‘W\M%ﬁ¢)ﬂhmuﬁ;Jﬁ
a. *6- WWW -
.' 4“"? 111.44, Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
. am“ March 18, 1958
Dear Mrs. BKmKXMKhXXX Stevens: (Must be getting weary, as I am getting
_ a little mixed up).
It is already 7PM, and I will try to write as quickly as I can, for I am
still at the office. I wrote a little note to Mrs. Stan Tharp, at the
office today, and passgdlét into her hand, with your letter of the
10th, and Mrs. Stevens , eceived at the PO at noon today, together
with Mrs. Stevens'note attached to the Information Report. Mrs. Tharp
read them all, but the Information report and has asked me to bring it
in tomorrow. I did not want to be reprimanded for talking about the
matter at her desk. (Sounds like the Gestapo).

I have perpetrated a little fraud here, as you will see from the carbons
enclosed. I was formerly Mrs. Wilson A. Barnes and still receive mail
in my box at the P0 in both our names, hence the sorters are familiar
with the name. As the carrier does not deliver mail to the box at the
apartment house, I think he will know (as with my own mail) that it
should go into Box 255, and to make sure I will write him a note saying
Xixmakix to put it in box 255. kndmxnemx I hope that the letters do
not sound like my style, nor the handwriting betray me. ‘

Mrs. Tharp told me she will write to Sen. Ellender tonight.

Mrs. Bemelmans an ,
I sent xnnxanxaagxnmmambmxz envelope today which I mailed at noon, bear~
ing 6d postage, xexpkx so you can be on the lookout for it.

Now will answer your letter of March la. I too do so wish my letters Will
have good results for the poor animals.

It was very interesting to learn that you were both in Washington recently
doing all that you could to encourage a favorable report on S. 149?. Yen
tell me that action is expected to be taken by the Committee on the 19th
and that is tomorrow . I can understand that letters written by you for
some one else to sign might not sound individual. I hOpe I have not de—
feated my purpose by my letters, but inasmuch as they were written when
there was still time, it would seem to me that they would take into
consideration the views I presented and the facts brought out. It was
difficult for me to know just how to write, starting from 'scratch'.

It was interesting to have Mrs. Bemelman tell me the origin of her name.
Mrs. Tharp ma when she saw it, asked me if I had any idea what kind of
name it is. ’

It must take a very large amount of money to carry on a society which is
supported entirely by voluntary contributions. Is the Animal Welfare
institute something new - and how do these societies have their beginning.
One of my charities while I was still home in New York City, was the
ASPCA and I have often wondered if they are still in existence. I might
have told you i am a mameber of the Humane Society in NY;&nti-Cruelty

Soc. of Chicago; alsoNBAnti-Vivisection of Boston. No doubt you are familia
with these names.

Speaking of getting mixed up, in writing these tonight, I addressed one

to Sen. Church and then the salutation was, "Dear Senator Dworshak" but I
caught that in time.

 




f )1”
, x ’1', —, 3, ’4 q ./ '1/ (ix.-
7 Z“, I -\\‘/ V; ,./
WA» W/l ﬁg «

9 Mai/L £34, “A r [AA/dz S4, /
\ ,7 7 " I, (MN (éjm'pﬁ “r
ﬂbvciq H ﬁé {W \awx

a} J,
‘ ‘ v! T ~ «9 “”“~K?7Lruaif lavave‘
2 (1‘ in, (:étojwﬂ— / 8:0 1/,” \ a. 5.

a. a- . ml” ‘ ‘LW 12,; J1» (FKAXLK ‘ _ ~\\\
When I go home I will look over the letters, again from Sen. Dworshak;t

to set in my own mind what he did say, and sendrit to you along with the
printed H.R. 8308 (abt. 6 sheets) as read and signed by the Clerk, which
he sent to me. I have these spread on the top of my covered baby grand
Baldwin, as there is no room to put them anywhere else, and be able to
sort them by spreading them out. I can also send you Senator Frank _
Church's last reply, so that you can set them in your own mind, and then
you may return them when they have served their purpose.

long
Also when I go home I will address/envelopes on my home typewriter,
to accommodate 36¢ in stamps which it will take for the air mail spec.del.

I don't think Mrs. Tharp would know from your last paragraph thanking me
for the confidential copies, as she would not know what we were td.king
about, I am quite sure.

ﬁeadingm£a£4$mnam4amﬂnhnﬂnymaeb~pnabablyasent~yeamthewla4£ﬁﬂe4£HHEHL-s~-

Please excuse this messy affair of a letter. I am trying to hurry.

At first I signed these letters I wrote tonight Wilson A. Barnes, and
changed my mind, and will have them go With (Mrs.) pneﬁkxamgnzmnnnmmaz
preceding the name, then there will be no chance for the PO getting
confused.

I find I must revieW'in my own mind, also, just what these senators did
say.

Best wishes, and thanks for your very nice letter.
Sincerely,
7 :1 f ‘ I 7'
(2%«4124 (faéézﬁﬁ

(Miss) Amelia Schell

 




     

cast. tiers remamc‘ scatter-
market.
Alt nuclw
more cars

‘mﬂw .
EChalk Dust "3:21.23;

, l
55 5for U. S.
a‘ . By Gladys Messex to as W,
W THIN SUNSHINE PIlAYING vest and!
. l‘hide~and~seek with brief showers of ed the ca
. 5 rain and snow, birds becoming . ago.
:‘vocal and winds leaving child-cool ‘
3ikisses on. my cheek, wake the
.. li5pussywillow thunter in one. Demc
5-1 Then I become again the .
e iyounger of two short-legged Bannool
l. 5ghost town residents who began chairman
- 5lto look for cations While the .in-g a \m‘
daoreek was muffled in thick ice, ‘9‘ ”gain
e :the canyon winterestill. and even the .' 13:1.
:— ipeeling away bark where pussies. $323355:
h. would be later failed to: reveal 'tte
>- {any encouraging :hint of life. «Eng; '
Ld; WE “WERE so TIRED OF win- monelrnber;
£9,166}: and its erstwhile enohanments. E: 1 e
’ 5 1 made sled be Tom!
1e 3 right over the brink of [Fate .
0.5Fallrs at the bend of the road, and F' ‘
id gfed onion-aces, camp robbers, blue will be :
' 5 jays “and magpies, and cut caves Of the D
Win crystal drifts through slow
3 5marohing months. Mother had re- . Girl
/ ipelatedly made a winter delight of

 

 

 

 

 

......~

 

 

M

 

 

ﬁresih snow, raw eggs, canned milk, The G
gvanina and sugar to break the ' in ever:
.oelebraJ

:monotony of meals whioh :had to
369 5 come from cans, the root cellar WWW
3.3g 3 in the hill side, and the woods- ut
“ea 5 man’s skill displayed by our pros-- year’ 5!
{‘3 Erector father with his tiny Rough count
iv4g~Rider 22 - . Tr“
No school bells summoned us anni
from the silent Solitude of sister- sew
1y adventure, for we lived in an ”Vi
old mine «boarding house while our
dad looked: for gold in the wake 111
of the great tboorm. th'
By February we were yearning
for a change; even the toy sec-
tions of the worn mail-order catw-
‘logues and dog-cared copies of ‘
The Youth‘s Companion had lost '
(Continued On Page Three)

   
  
    
   
   
   
   
    
    
    
     

     
 

   

 
   

,

3

83? Pierre Pulling
You should inote that the Do
G-ooders «liave/ pushed a humane
,slau-gihtering 4bill through the
House. Various letters appear in
the Press urging that we write
our Senators to favor it. I have
not read the bill. From the urge
}of the letters, I am going to write
{to my SenatorHr send them
marked capies oﬁ this column-
and suggest that they do their
part to kill said bill as dead as
country sausage. A letter noting 1
that eating the ﬂesh of frightened 1
animals might induce cancer was
“‘too buoh rfor be” if {I may quotei
the Elephant Child when the orc-
codile snared onto his nose. I had
already been skeptical. _
‘ .There is little question. about"
some undue cruelty in elaughter-
ing animals. Death is a. cruel busi—
. ness'. So is birth, and too much of
life. My profession is largely a
- study of living things, and every— ‘
thing that lives must die. You may
argue that protozoans—-su~ch as
oebaeureproduce solely by fis~
sion, and may 'be immortal in an,
iideal environment. But they would ‘
ibreed themselves out of an ideal
[environment just as sure as death
‘and taxes. Local crueltJy, however,
iis pretty much a matter of local
ieduc‘ation. Make it a federal mat~
ater, and you «have more federal
police, more federal reports, and
‘more federal taxes. “I doubt that ,‘
, there is a state lac-king laws aim-
ed at the prevention of cruelty to 5
‘animals. I know of a number of
organizations interested in their
enforcement. They may well- ,
successful where locally needed.
Neither do I doubt the high
ideals of all those who are 1)! ~
v'ii‘g Wisdom“: Likewise ' , I am\
{aware that hell is paved
equally good intentions. "Passingl
a law” is not necessarily the way
(Continued on Page Four) 1

  

  
    
   
   
 
     
   
   
   
   
    
     
   
    
     
    
    
   
   
  
     
    
 

  

  

   
 

 
 

   
      
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
  
 

 

 

 

  
  

  
 
   
   
   




   

The 'Inter'mountain and Alameda EnterpriSr

 

(Continued from Page 2)
up that they had been buying,
including trips to Europe with
not a cent down. Over—spent.
up to their ears in debt, their
credit gone . Then what.
,Why, a great falling off in
buying, a great piling up of
goods. You’d think that even a
graduate. of our present public
school system could understand
an economic principle so plain
and so inexorable.

No wonder Eisenhower went
down there and practically refus-
ed to see anybody. Time says he
isn’t liar—though this reporter

(continued “on: rage Hue)
to get results, nor do I see any
lway of really enforcing this one.
lNeit'her would (the proponents if
t.lley llad been raised [with farm
animﬂals and had followed them
.to and through the packing plant.
Frightening rllhem up to their un-
known capacity for {right is un-
avoidable. Hurting them to some
1 extent is also part of the picture
Cutting and branding does not
make calves happy. Stock resent
being driven off of their habitual
range. They find it rougrh indeed
to be persuaded onto a cattle car
with electric “909913” and ”0 en‘ thinks that is some pretty silly
rdure the long trip that ends 11—1 mil Whistling in the dark. If not ill,
slaughtering «pens Of 9014193 meylmray‘be he’s just llead- ovel- -heels

 

 

 

 

 

lore given 911 (-1119 care to prevent confused. Everything was so pros— .
dur-ng a. part of his te11n,l"

lieslng weight Neither do, we perolls
i

\kllOW just how they are fr1ghten‘Lwasnt 1t? But what did Teddy:

ed or how me‘h they are 1W” say? The love of soft living and

  
 
 
 

this jOI
amazed
a long
sevelt.
For
ease ‘
iden
toll:
He
of
N-

l

:rwlren finally, killed They (1’0 1101 the get-rich-quick theory of 11fe.|'

killed, which was; not the case
when, humans under the heel of a
ﬁlltlerr or a. Stalln were handled
under slrmdlar conditions.
injury often produces little or no
gpain in humans but collapse
junder fear is conunon enough.

I have shot many thousands of
animals and *birds I was farm
raised, and did my share in butch~
ering hogs beef. and poultry We
killed as humanely as we could on

i

l
1

present national illness.
Turn to page 29, same issue,
and what do you find? That in

with pilots and rpassengels
taken at gunpoint and felcetl to
fly over into nortill Korea. Says an
Eighth Anny general. “There was
no reason to intercept a known
friend-1y airrcraft” And then; at
the end of the story: “There 1 as
no word on the fate of the planes

l

Lethal {South Korea one of our planesl
A8231

l
l

l
l

the farm and I have (110119 my beetapaesengera” Is it any wonder that
l

to promote clean, sure shooting

Game animals and birds are pretty!

noble creatures as a. whole. Even
gene nuisance jack rabbit rates bee
Ting blasted with a. .220 Palm than
chased into a snow«fence corral”,
and elobbered with a club. PeSt
1eradication rls cruel all the way
through. I assure you that coyotes
do not enjoy being poisoned.
How far are you going to go in

 

being humane? Sow tranquilizing
pills before opening of hunting
season? Treat bullets and birdsllot
with a lightning fast anesthetic?
or develop an and-«mosquito slap~
ping society? It is an uphill task
Remember the Gay Nineties stanza
“emanating from England I think.
“In a vine emborwered cotbame
'Dherre was born a child of sin;
But the lube he ain‘t no father
So ehe gently did ’lm in!"

It takes considerable machinery
land knowledge to make death gen—
l‘tle. More than can be managed,
as I see it, in the average slaugh-
tealhouse, and when must occur to
the animals as they approach it.

While on this matter of death
and its methods, I note that some
Pocdtello junior high boys are. in
the bolls for harboring home made
Shooting irons. We will peers the
fact (that mhere was some irregu

 

 

lair-rt}! in. getting the components.

But they were 13 to 16 111 age
I owned a good .22 rifle at 12, and
. M .SihﬂLELlll at 13 By
1: I had hunted everything in

e area with every gun belongincr
o the family and most of the

Jeighrbors guns So these

ould rate a chance a
L legitimate
shooting. Might make them under
stand things humane aftel they
attain years of discretion.

—.._.

klds :

l
l

 

 

 

 

 

.. . A ..l:‘__‘~.dg‘ .

know that they are 301118 ‘19 be But there’s more than that in the _-




Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
March 18, 1958

Mrs. Madeleine Bemelmans

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth.Avenue, Room 812

New YOrk 22, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Bemelmans:>

After I sealed the envelope addressed jointly to you and Mrs. Stevens,
last night,(ind had returned from Miss Weber's home) thought I

would look over my Friday papers, which I had not had a chance to do,
and in skipping down.the columns picking up a word or sentence here
and there, my attention was arrested by Pierre's Lookout, by Pierre
Pulling, in which he calls humanitarians and peOple who are trying to
help our poor animals "Do Gooders" and he states that he is going to
write his Senators and suggest they do their part to kill the bill.

I thought this was a very callousﬂ attitude to take, and I have the
impression he must be a brutish man. I do not know who he is and

he is not listed in the phone book. There is an Albert Pulling,
Colonial Hall, which is upghm the Universityif?ﬁﬂl think this is a
Residence Building, and he might be an instructor in journalism, who

writes for the paper.

ogumn, but am.somewnat stumped as to
éﬁted a good case; and sending him

I should like.¢ _a swer his c
what to say, a§§%@%letter%p#qg
the sample of other editorials, should bring home to him what other
civilized human beings, also writing for papers, think of cruelty
to animals.

Last night as I read on and on, I was incensed, and as it was the
last newspaper I selected to get caught up on, it must have been
close to 3AM when I finally got to bed. I did not feel a bit sleepy.
His defiant attitude must have alerted me.
to you..

I p Opened the envelope to enclose the clippingl/and,As I have not
analyzed it word for word, but have my impression of such an individual,
I should certainly like to write him in kind. Perhaps when you W¥¥$§Mf§
after analyzing it, yank I can take my ideas from What you say in your

letter. Neither do I know how far a person can go to berate such a

pa 1" S 0n7 *‘77/{7fx M43147 dame-.49.:422am .

I am writing this on my coffee break, and think I had better conclude.
I shall be awaiting with much interest your comments, and hOpe there
are not many such peeple throughout the world. Perhaps he has
Communist tendencies, and bears watching in what he writes. Bresiously
I have never paid much attention to his column - just reading the paper
and clipping out items of interest, such as the trash we hear on the
radio these days. Eli leer, librarian (I believe at the Univ.) writes
about this, alsoégﬁgﬁﬁMErashy books. «wﬂ&
-t.§ww'aﬁm‘
With best wishes to you and awaiting your reply, I anxiVVkpwfV “\
.Am glad I discovered it this Very sincerely yours, L ‘ 4
soon. (Miss}-Amelia SchelléémaéuLeﬁaw?

 




. . 'de 255, Pocatello, Idaho
AIR MAIL , March 19, 1958
/ '
Mrs. Christine Stevensv ?PS — Inasmuch as l have had most

Animal Welfare Institute - also of m '
. . , 1 . cor e A _ :
Soc1ety for Animal Protective Legislation am aggresgiig°iﬁ§20iowtﬁﬁ you,

745 Fifth Avenue, Room 812
New York 22, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

Last night my neighbor(and landlord, in a way, as she has an interest in
the apartment house through the estate of her deceased husband) Jean
Bistline slipped the Buzz of the Burg article under.my door while I was
talking on the phone to May weber. As I have only the one, I made copies
of it this morning here in the office and enclose one for you and Mrs.
Bemelmans. ‘ .

Miss Weber tells me that this Pierre Pulling has a goatee and mustache,
(I presume he wants to look real French and appear as an Intellectual)
and in her opinion reminds her of a Scottie (or some dog she mentioned).
I think it is an insult to a dog when a person compares it with a human.
One time I told my veterinarian that Snazzy was almost human, and he re-
marked it was not fair to Snazzy. I, too, feel the same way - an animal
would not stOOp to the things a human is capable of -_and xg right here
in this office there are many instances - and an animal does the things
God intended for it to do.

This Pierre rulling does not appear to have any knowledge of what the bill
is about, according to his own admission and he must be a very callous
individual. indeed, I would be reluctant to have to study biology under
him, which teaching 1 am sure would include many cruelties.

He calls the Anti-vivisectionists out-dated. All the peoples in the

many countries in the world who already have had humane slaughter methods

since 1870, must have been idealists. I wonder how he would like to be

eXperimented upon. 1 have heard that these killing-happy students go

around a§;night in cars and pick up pets to use for their biology classes.,

I would dispute lng's classing him as a fine sportsman and humanitarian.

1 do not call going out and shooting deer which do not have a chance,aas a

sport. I voice my opinion that if the deer were armed, and it were a

even challenge, then it is a sport, but to kill a defenseless, terrified

animal is not a sport. Anybody can do that, with a gun. Note he was

brought up on a farm where they slaughtered animals and killed other

wild animals, also birds. (I can visualize an old shabby house and dirty

barns housing cows and filthy pig pens; outside plumbing, and no kind of

sanitation in the house, and 13 to 15 children - probably Mormons).

ihnaughxthx Traveling through the mountains in this pastoral country,

one can see the ol _hou§e igmgisrepair Where the old folks lived, and the

new ones bui1tf§iﬁienthEMwar,CWhere the newer generation thrived on

government subSidies.In such old houses, with many children, one can also
imagine how they were crowded in the rooms.

1 also wish to comment that I never feel sorry when I read a hunter has
been shot by another one in the bills, as they are so greedy to make their
kill and over~anxious that they shoot at anything that moves among the

 




an possessed by deer, to cross
» at a certain point. He appears
-2- not to realize they have a conscious-
ness.
trees. I always fear, too, in hunting season, traveling on the highway
that 1 might even be the victim of a stray shat bullet, from a hunter
tracking down his kill which might be escaping toward the highway.

It just occurs to me, the state has signs along the highway "Game
Crossing" which make me wonder how the game know enough to stay together
to make their crossing there. It could be that the government puts out
h; the approximately foot square salt licks in that vicinity, and the
game crosses in pairs. whenever I have seen deer on the highway, they

seem to travel in pairs, or perhaps three, and if alone, it is usually

a fawn. I think these animals know from instinct they are going to be killed
in slaughter-houses, and wonderhwhat Pierre would attribute the instinct%*
One more point re. this Pierre Pulling. He knows nothing about what

the animal feels, or whether it knows it is going to be killed. Neither

does he have any thought for the men who must earn their living at
this debasing work.

i certainly would like to patxaxgandx prepare and have published a
very good answer, and not take their arguments without a rebuttal, and
have it so good that they xnukdxnnk could not argue against it.

It is gratifying that there are some people left in the world who are

real "humanitarians" and signify it by deeds, and take the time to help
the animals.

I know Mr. Poage would know just how to argue them down. I could take
his argumenhsfrom the Congressional Record, and all those who were
vociferous for its passage, and have these published. I tried to get
copies of yesterday's Idaho State Journal for this Buzz of the Burg,
but the stand downstairs in the depot was all sold out, and the article
did not appear too long to copy.

@3913ng ﬂ;’«’/L"il}f/Al«x( i t ’ S 1 OZ5ANE)

I had better do some w rk, as the old buzzard (he isn't even that good--

under my breath he is a 'louse') is keeping his eyes on us girls.

When the Chief Clerk goes out the girls take advantage of it and do
their visiting. 1hey do not realize when they are criticizing us girls
that they, too, are wasting time. we have two in the office who are
eligible for retirement, one 67 and the other 70, and old age is
difficult for their dispositions.

Very sincerely yours,

(Miss) Amelia Schell

P.S.

Mrs. Tharp mentioned to me this morning,(when she was making the

office coffee) that she got her letter off to Senator Bllender and

thought it was a good idea for me to write in my former name.

Jean Bistline's daughter-in—law, formerly a not too-successful school teacher
of the first or second grade, is associated with Perry Swisher in a book
shop.

Perry Swisher is the editor of the lntermountain & Alameda Enterprise.

 




noticed it in the paper, and said she gave it taoa neighbor to r?§§u§

box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
March 17, 1958

Mrs. Madeleine Bemelmans

Society for Animal Protective LegiSIation
745 Fifth Avenue, Room 812

New York 22, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Bemelmans:

Thank you for your recent letter, indicating you were pleased with my
letters, which made me feel very gratified for the work I had put into ”
them. I will be so happy When the 2: issue is made into law,-for thesexk
poor animals. , a (g
I enclose a newspaper clipping from the Idaho State Journal, called ,
"Buzz of the Burg - By ING" — which gustaxxxax reprints m letter. ,g\
"Ing" is Nicholas G..Ifft, the owner and publisher. Mrs. harp 3150 9

. . . 991%“
May Weber called it to my attention, as I man not get the paper; 1
xaxniyngXXxx as I subscribe to two of the other papers, but can never
read them through, due to falling asleep over them. Friday night I
remained after work to write letters for Miss weber to sign and when

I went to her home to bring her empty typewriter ribbon boxes (to use
for tacks, pins, etc., and perhaps in her classroom) I discovered that
I had forgotten to bring the letters over for her to sign. Saturday

I brought them over, and drove her up to the beauty parlor, as she

does not have a car. Yesterday (Sunday) I drOpped in to ask how she
enjoyed a ravioli dinner which I knew she was going to attend, andxtax
nhiahxkxmax as guest of a lady friend of hers, and for which I had,als,
purchased a ticket, but as the dinner was being served to about 1,000
between 1 and 6, and the room was so large, I did not happen to see
her. (°peaking of falling asleep, it is odd how May will drop off to
sleep, while any one is there, and conversing with her. Her XEKXX

aged mother will be in the rocking chair asleep, and May in the plat-
form rocker, with her eyes closed and then I take my leave. She did
that Friday night; and also yesterday about 6PM when I stopped by, but
she had not as yet read nor signed the letters. I am one for doing
things immediately, if at all possible, and not for putting xxxuxxx
them off.

I was interested in the origin of your name, as related by you ~

some peOple ask me if my name is German, which it Rickyy paternal
grandfather came from Baden Baden, Germany; his wi g/came to America
from County Cavan, Ireland, but was born in Birmingham, England. My
maternal grandfather (Kabus) f gaggom Breslau; and maternal grand-
mother from Bavaria (her namg g . £38, but my maternal grandfather was
of French Huguenot extraction. I thought this might interest you, on
the subject of names.(The name above is Eichhorn; I had written my
grandmother's mother’s maiden name).

I will go over to Miss Weber tonight for the carbon copies of the
letters I wrote for her to sign, and will encloSe them herewith.

"I

My thought is to address my envelope jointly, so that whoever opens
it will have her letter, and pass the other one to the other addressee.

I appreciate your kind letter to me, and thank you for mailing back to
me those I sent and requested returned. I enclose a copy of my letter
to Sen. Williams, which you may retain, as I made sufficient copies for

myself. I know you will keep me posted. Very sincerely{%¢,@§[(/Lmélk,.. 2nd“

 




/\
«v ‘5

I #41de 771471 ' «é Ht ' NL'J'LLLL LL") -‘~”""'C"A’W7 / L La“ “/r 5/ 1.045.616: Lu
[‘SWLLz. L X L 'La Li...

,/:Z [Z L . I r I I
V“) f" LLLL“ /L /L""L/ (if/”1% 157* ML LL/‘CaCHCJQ _... 7“ 0 ILL/L‘LLLL), cunLLL

V
.Z
" ~11. L

JEN FLLL’ 'LZL'L‘LC‘LL‘LIZ [“1ch KC v/xeg/C/L/ (Chg-L ['M: “if
L.g»~L.L:.I/; ,..g..,./;L KZZL, 2g [ZZZ (1 Z (*(Z 76' / ,,,,, /sz (Z ”(L Z Z ZLU: _ L ZZZ/Z /(Z /\£3,\Z
71f: ﬁf‘ U4" ”CC 74/: “”2/quZ/v; Cr‘LLﬁLLE L rﬁLc/ZL 11/ Cl 6 CC! £714 /V‘ “r 2%: (“V

.. If ‘x Z. \Z_- ,- a" ‘ Z
{3"} [L '1 :KL‘L AC F/ jlz‘w/ . 'S//C’L' ,./}w\/L..L,Cé/¢{ /u-:_L, ILL/1' ,1 41M? m 2: //1W #

4/,4K

.' , ’ —
I’m «" _/' ‘,/' ,. m.
4

C'L’L M<. I’ZLff’Ct/L ant/”L 7‘)’ p \'e. L/”‘/L C. C /€/,"Z.~’é/ .M.‘v€l /K':/L L fCi/VK' _ L»-7/~{”Z’Z/\'Z .. Z/ZZZ Qty/(m4. A2,”! , I x \ Z /’Z (: ZZZ Z Z J
JCPL L LT ZLLL/L‘ ,

~14 f f, /’ ICE/xx Z’C L¢uj /%L/

Liu (Agﬁbu L—L-in ML L1. ’34?

ﬂéé iLLHLLr/\}

[EL Tit/é ,fu, %Lp&€ C (Lt /4\.// /(6k M AC \ 0/43; Hib-*/ Z ZLLL 2

J/kétM/KLZ/17\ £L7ALbV/ork/ ﬂf/51L¥Z/1Lc;CLKL/ZZL/ a” LLLL LL
zit/“55m: A; .~ L

Q ' 1i , r
I; £1,663”,th C: LL // C ZZZ/,9: L/C L L Z Z 7 -Z:‘ L/LrL/C’Ll’k- /C..FL“L~L‘[¢/ (,L L. g/(
I J

J/
I/ .

l .1 ; ,F, ,. . . i? / 34/- Z.
«Zng /”Ik.' [7 7C“) “Luz. I,“ I» ) PYL LL Z—rq ll/ZZ Z 5L A2237 r—é /.{L#[—t: 65.4.7" 4"CLJ’C yzﬂemwt’ WLK/l r L, (g.
”yucmz/LLL

L'chC (L'- {L C‘ LL.

0/5/19 :7th 260‘ 46% «iffy. (v ”KILL-ti» ”Vi/L 1;, gig

 




 

”U. S. to Launch
AA errata. £5 ,ﬁays
Von Armin

LONDON (UP) —— U.S. rocket
scientist Wernher Von Braun says
the United States plans to launch
a satellite carrying a monkey “in
the foreseeable future,” and hopes
to get a man into space “within
the next five years.

In a recorded interview telecast ‘
to Britain Sunday night, the Ger-
man~born U.S. Army space expert
said the second U. S. satellit “will
definitely be in orbit” by the end
of next month.

He added, however, that EX«
plorer No. 2 will carry only instru-
ments, with no living creatures
aboard. It will be sometime be‘
fore the American “monknik” is
launched, he said.

He said the U.S. satellite would
carry a monkey rather than a, dog
like Russia’s “muttnik” because it
is “closer to man.”

Von Braun indicated that there
is little likelihood of the United
States trying any time soon to send
a rocket to the moon.

“Present-day rockets could put a.
beer can on the moon, but who
wants to do that?” he asked.
“First, we should send rockets to
circumnavigate the moon and ob—
tain information about its other
side.”

 




E‘Eﬁmh 12$, 1958

Miaa ﬁmelia.ﬁchall
Bax 255
?acatallo, Iﬁabe

ﬁaarfﬁiga Schell'
a

f Thanka $0 mush fbr*ynur 133% we goad latters anﬁ tha ccpieg 9f tha axaallant
lattara»yvu hava written ta Eaaﬁingtsn ané ta tha Idaha newﬁpagers. E hopa that
thay‘mill have awed rasulﬁs far tha @mer animals.

ﬁrs. Bamalmans 13 entirely raeavared, and wﬁ ware in Emﬁhington tha aﬁher day
doiag all that Wﬁ cauld ta ancaurage a favcrabla repart an S. 1&9? by tha Senatﬁ
Cammittae an Agriculturg and Fare$tny¢ ﬁctian is axpmcted to ba takan by th&
Cbmmittee mm Marnh 19th, and we hapa therﬂ will be a gocd ragulﬁ. I'm anﬂﬂy
that yaw? frienﬂa havan‘ﬁ bean abla ts ﬁe more in tha'way sf latﬁer wriﬁing. I
wish ﬁhat ma cauld write latters fer thama'but if'we starﬁed ﬁaing ﬂhat, I fear
that there ﬁbula b@ n% anﬂ t9:&3 and} of ccuraaﬁ it 1% vital that %h@ lattarﬁ be
individual and mat just capiea of ﬁmma Qua $13933 b66ﬂﬂ3$ 2 have haard rapaataély
ﬁhat lattara which all hava the aama wa?ding are mast asida ag insignificant by
thoaa wha rangive thaw in Washingtan.

I unald gay hhia, hawevar, that gnaw %u$y friemdﬁ maaﬁ mot writa 19mg lattarﬁ.
Your latﬁarg are wandarfulg but ame can’% expect avaryanw t9 agené 30 much tima
a8 yum d6. Thgrafore, if yam want ta suggaat thaﬁ ynur friﬁﬁdﬁ wriﬁm samaﬁhing
onxy threa or fbur saﬂtmncms leng ta tha Senators, stating aimply that thay'want
S. 1&9? to ba anacﬁad intm law immediaﬁaky iﬁ avdar he stay thﬁ unmacasaany cruelty
to the hundradg of millisns of ear faod anim&lﬁ that are guffarimg aach yaar in
ear Slaughterhmuaaa, that wanlﬁ be helpful.

in 338W@? ta ynur questiaﬁ about ﬁrs. Benelmans’ nam$, it is Belgian 1m arigin
and means ballaringar. .

Cmnearning tha financial aupﬁart for the Seciﬁties, thay are entirely supgartmd
by volunﬁary cantributimns. ﬁé hava‘memberﬁhipg in tha ﬁnimal m®1farw institute
but not in tha Sacieﬁy @ar Animal Prateative Lagialatiun beeama® i% the laﬁtar
sociaﬂy WE are alwayu.asking peaple tn Spenﬁ their manay an stamps aad'letter paper
to write ta ﬁashingﬁan and t9 their ﬁriemés abaut the great naad far humana alaughtar
lagislatien. ﬁawaverg paayle 0ftan Send as gifts naverthwlassg amé wa ara meat grates
ful far them.

I nota that Senate? Dwmrshak sent yam a copy cf tbs Cangrassional.ﬁecarﬁ an tha
dabata on HQR. 8308.1m tha Eausa. Biﬁ he staﬁe that he will aupaart tha bill?

ThankLybu so much for tha canfidantial copiea. Thay will certainly mat be ahcwn
to anynna but kept far aux own infarmatien. I’m returning ynur cogy of thﬁ letﬁar
ta Senatnr church. I hope he will wriﬁa yea t9 say ha will dafinitely su@$ar% tha
bill.

Beat wishea,

 




-:By‘Pierre Pulling
nuns PAST WEEKEND was
~ _ ruined .wfor rabbit Shooting by the
annual meeting of lime Idaho Wild.
lbfe ‘FederaitiOn. Tiltls life is just
gne damn “kind of wildlife after
another. and of course I’m glad
V of it. Still, its a shame to pass up ‘
a go at the jacks. Lots of shoot-e
mg and nothing to skin. Nothing
to eat eiﬁher unless you pick up
the occasional Cotton’oall, upon
which the season sways Open-
through J anuamy. But you get the
thanks of the ranchers. Rabbits r'
can take a dangerous. percentage
of growing wheaté They also ser-
iously trim winter wheat before it
gets much chance to grow. The
rabbit cycle seems to be turnang

up sharply after a “low” that

started early in M52.

Come February 4, I note that I
am to preach a minor sermon on,
“Researdh Pmblems in Game Man-
agement". Cycles as illustrated by
rabbits are one of those partially
unknown problems. Cycles have
been observed, presumably, since
Cro‘ ‘ Magnum Man sneaked norﬂh
”behind the ice. I know a chap
manned Leonard “Sumpot” Wing -
who wrote a doctor’s- dlssertatlon ,f
on animal cycles. He allowed they -
could result (from differences in
solar , radiation, caused “by sunspots.

 

 




Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
February 28, 1958

Mrs. Christine Stevens, Secy.-Treas.
Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue, Room 812

New York 22, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

I enclose a copy of the letter I have written to the two newspapers

here. They are the same, except that I had only one sampling of

editorials left (my file cepy) which I sent to the Intermountain,etc.,
together with the graphic leaflet..After mailing it and writing, from

it, my letter to the Idaho State Journal, I was horrified that I had

not noticed that I misspelled "tragic" as "gragic". This I did on

my coffee break, and was trying to write as much as possible, but I

am sure they will knOW'What I mean. It is already 7PM, and I stayed

at the office last night till 7PM to marshall all the facts into a
letter to the newspapers, from rough writings. I thought of writing

my final letter, at home, but became so sleepy, just couldn't. I

only hope that my efforts are not too late, and that they will publish
editorials, and there may be individuals who will still write.

My friend, Miss May Weber failed me entirely, and I thought I W'might
get time to write letters for her to sign, to the 15.members of the
Committee on.Agriculture,etc., but I couldn't. After teaching all
day she is exhausted at night, and has a lot of home work to do for
school for the next day. I had a vague thought if you could write
the kind of letters for her that would bring action, I know she would
sign them. She is 733 South Arthur Ave., Pocatello.

Finishing

‘katkng my letters today were done by taking snatches of time when
the man who sits in front of me would leave his desk.

Tonight, I also wrote Senator Dworshak thanking hinifor sending me the
Record (which XXXXMKXXKXXXXKXXKKXXXKXKKKE I sat up late one night

to read, but have about 5 more pages to go). I enclose a copy of my
letter to him, which you may have as I made a number of copies.

I sent a leaflet to my 83-yr. old aunt, in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, N. Y.,

and I was distressed that she wrote me "not to send that kind of

letter to her, as she is sick and disgusted reading those terrible

things." My reply to her was that if everybody felt that way, there
‘would be no one to help these pitiful animals who die for us, and I am
glad there are societies for the protection of animals. I presume she
will admonish me to write her "nice" letters. She chooses the line of
least resistance, and think: I told her that by ignoring the situation
does not renedy it. ‘
Please send me about 6 copies of the samplings, which I might Wish to
send to the papers again, depending on their reply. Mrs. Tharp has note
mentioned receiving the literature, but then we do not have an opportuni-
ty to visit at eacn other‘s deSks, withouttgﬁing complained about.

Fﬁp

.ﬂxxn, ﬂue to lack of time, Mrs. Tharp/has written only to Milton R. Young
of North Dakota, of the Committee. However, she has written to Sen.
Dworshak and Sen. Church. state

3

 




     
   
    
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
    
   
     
   
  
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
 

-2-

Perhaps if it is not too late, you could type letters for her to sign
and send. PeOple do not have the time nowea-days, and do not make the
effort to find the time to do such things as this. Mrs. Iharp (here
in the west we call each other by first names, and I was about to
write "Jeannie") and her husband both work for the railroad and have
three small children. Perhaps she keeps her household more orderly
than mknxxx I do mine, but It is impossible for me to do both. My
little Pomeranian pet awaits me at home; and tonight is my night

at the apartment to do my washing, but I felt I just had to catch up
on my humane work, and keep you informed.

Thank you for saying that if I eﬁer return to New York for a visit
to let you know. It will, indeed, be a pleasure to meet you and hear
of all the wonderful work you are doing.

In your P.S. you state more letters to the members of the Senate
Committee on Agriculture and Forestry are urgently needed to get the

bill out of Committee, and I am wondering how this can be done, when
well-meaning friends fail due to the lack of time,MM/WWW WW

I received the enclosed letter from Mr. John J. Williams,*which—is

I will write and thank gnu him, and
send you a copy. I still have to look over my letters from the
Congressmen, and write them, as they advised me that HR 8308 was
passed by a voice vote in the House. Eeﬂ=¥-

It is 7: 30 PM, but it takes me only about 8 minutes to reach home in
my car, although I have to walk another three minutes to reach it
south of the depot where I work.

my best wishes to you, and I will welcome your further suggestions.

It does take quite some time to compose a letter and make many re-
visions. Your circulars mid letters have been of great help for

ideas on_how to express my views; and great inspiration, and I

presume thatkis how my letters grew to great prOportion, but I do feel
that the more said, the better.

ﬁkb»

Forgive me if I seem to you to have a mania for writing long letters.
‘Very sincerely yours,
QMiss) Amelia Schell
P.S. I hepe Mrs. Bemelmans is entirely well again. 21W
MWMWW memeﬁ
”WAG/[M 9WWW7¢¢MW;E“7
igaﬂibkc41. t1d fbjyua CQWMQ{JLL,f;ﬂ£A¢4%4 #1 ”€kVVWQbm.

WW>

 
   
     




44g 444% 4:4 3x 4% 4N: 4344434
Qxé:§u\o§ éydé g
“4ng $83 434643
444 4% 324%
o} 344V$¢4V<s \dNWQKELNV gykgm E QKQNQ \Q/S
‘43 U USS/Q 4§\~h\\w4§%
e 44 4 444.444.. 4.... 4.4.
.. JWV‘R X 458,4. 4.654% CS fﬁdm glw
4 QN 94: 4%4§\MW
4.444% 364%: Eg \ré
x 4444444144 4544 {xv 344 443E
44§4§\§&§\\é¥4§?4ﬁ .xwwx/i mg
idg EQE E
dddqé N444$
éwdaaxwégwﬁ §§§Sg.d\v
44E} 4N“ 44w: 444 ﬁﬁméwsyb 8: :36

4.43.44
$§u§§§§ {4449?
e 444%? QN\4 . §§

 




Box 255, Pocatello, ldaho - February 28, 1958

ﬁr. Perry Swisher, Editor
lntermountain a Alameda Enterprise A
Bannock Hotel Building .
Encl. sampling
Pocatello, idaho. u graphic leaflet

Dear Mr. Swisher:

i should like to see published in your pqaer, an editorial favoring the
humane slaughter bill and urging our citizens to join in this crusade
to make it possible for our food animals in slaughter houses to have a
humane death. I have already presented my views to our Congressmen aah~
ing them to give voice to HR 8308, which passed the House on February 4;
and asked all the members of the Senate Agriculture d Forestry Committee,
and our Senators, to report favorably on Senate Bill 1497 new pending
before that Committee, to establish the use of humane methods as a
policy of the United States. Many recent editorials and articles in
favor of humane slaughter legislation have been printed in newspapers
over the country, as shown by enclosed sheets of samples, compiled by
the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, N. Y. City, and they have,
in turn, resulted in many letters to Washington. Also, the enclosed
leaflet gives the full graphic story.

‘Already a tremendous victory has been won in the fight to put an.end to
slaughter house cruelty and never before has the right of these terri-
fied animals to decent treatment been so ardently and forcefully argued
in the halls of Congress, but much work remains to be done to get favorw
able action in the Senate, in this session.

We owe our eternal gratitude to Mr. W. R. Poage of Texas, the author of
the bill; to Mr. Harold D. Cooley of North Carolina, (Shalrman of the
house Agriculture Committee; Mr. William A, Dawson of Utah; and Mrs.
Martha Griffiths of Michigan, who introduced the first humane slaughter
bill in the House, all of whom showed great courage and dedication in
the support of the measure; and to the many humanitarian: whose pressure
and influence brought home to all Congressmen the great demand for the
bill.

We have humane societiesk founded as early as 1904 by loyal, public~
spirited individuals, supported solely by membership, which furnish free
clinics for needy animals, and are dedicated to the purpose of prevent~
ion of cruelty and of protecting helpless and defenseless animals, and
there must be people who are anxious to have humane laws enacted, once
they understand What it is about and how needed such kegislation is for
the protection of our pitiful and helpless food animals in slaughter
houses, thereby putting an end to this slaughter-house cruelty. It is
up to all or us citizens to write a record number of individual letters
to our Senators, Henry Dworshak and Frank Church, at the Senate Office
Building, Washington, D. C4, and let them know of our urgent pleas and
demands to have humane laws enacted in this session ~ for increased
pressure and demand on our elected representatives for their considera-
tion and support mean increased influence in the fight to correct, by
enactment into law, this gragic injustice and cruelty. Citizens should
also write to each member of the Senate.AgriCulture & Forestry Committee

 




-2-

or to¢tha member from their state or the state nearest them. They are:

Hon. Allan J. Ellendar of Louisiana Hon. George D. Aiken of vormont
Hon. 01in D. Johnston of South Carolina; Hon. Edward J. Thyo of Minnesota
Hon. Spoasard L. Holland of Florida Hon.Milton i2. Young of North Dakota
Hon. James O. Eaatland of Mississippi‘ Hon. John J. a illiamo of Delawarav
Hon. Hobart H. Humphrey of Minnesota Hon.Bourko B. Hickonloopor of Iowa
Hon. W. Kerr Scott of North Carolina Hon. Karl E. Mundt of South Dakota
Hon. Stuart Symington of Missouri Hon. Andrew F. Schoeppol of Kansas
Hon. Harman E, Talmadge of Georgia '

and all may be addressed: Senate Office Building, Washington, D. C.

Helping our pitiful food animals should be regarded as a dedicated mis~
sion. Because moral values appear to us to transcend all others, we have
faith.that God designed and established a universe governed by moral

law which requires no to display qualities of goodness, Justice and
mercy Inxxxzx not only in our dealings with our fellowmon but in our
treatment of our brothers of the lower kingdoms of life. ”Inasmuch as

you have done it onto one of the Boast of these my brethren, you have
done it onto Me.”

l.do not wish my name to appear. but would appreciate your consideration
of an editorial on the need for humane slaughter legislation.

Vary sincerely yours.

(Miss) Amelia Schelt

 




Bax 255, Pacatello, ldahe
February 2%, 1958

Mr. Nicholas Gl lfft
Idaho State Jaurnal
305 aawth .Arthur Ave.
Pocatello; idaha

Dear Mr. ifft:

I shauld like to see published in year paper. an editerial favoring
thg humane slaughter bill and urging our citizens to Jain in this
crusade to make it passible fer our {cod animals in slaughter houses
to hava a humane daath. i have already presented my views ta aur
Congreasman asking them to give voice ta HR 6308, which passed the
House on February'éi and aaked all the members of the Senate Agriﬁ
culture & Ferastry*€ommittee, and our Senators, t9 repert favorably
on S. 1497 naw penéing befere that Committee, to establish the usz 3f
humane mathods a3 a policy of the Uniteﬁ States. Many recent edi-
toriali and articles in favor of huaane slaughter legislation have
been printed in newspapers ever the ceuntry and thay have; in turn,
resulted in many letters ta Washingtcn. {A130, the enclased leaflet
give& the full graphic stery, as campiled by the Society fer.Animml
Protective Legislatien in N€W'Y0rk City. ' ’

,‘Already'a tremendoug victory has been wan in the fight to put an and
to slaughter heuse cruelty and never befare has the right of-theae
terrified animals to decent treatment been so ardently and forcefully
argued in the halls 0f Congreas, but much work remains to be done t6
get favorable actien in the Senate, in this aessian. '

we awe an? eternal gratitude to ﬁr. w. R. Poage cf Texasg‘the authir
at the bill; in ﬁr. Harold D. Cooley of Nerth Carolina, Chairman of
the amuse Agriculture Committee; ﬁr. William.A. Dawsen at Utah; and
ﬁr3. Martha Griffiths cf ﬁichigan, who introduced the first humane
slaughter bill in the Renae, all of'whom shawed great courage and
éedicatien in the suppcrt 0f the measure; and to the many humani~
tarians'whase pressure and influence brought hams to all Congressmen
the great demand f©r the bill.

We have humane seeieiies founded as early as 1904 by loyal, public“
spirited individuals, supported solely by membership. which furnish
free clinics for needy animals, and are dadicated to the purpose at
preventian of cruelty and of protecting helpless and defenseless
animala. and there must be people whe are anxious tw have humane
iaws enacted, ence they understand what it is about and hGW'neeéed
such legislation is far the protection of aur pitiful and helpless
feed animals in slaughter houses, thereby putting.31 end to this
slaughtervhouae cruelty. It is up to all of us citizens to write a
record number cf individual letters to our Senatcrs,.ﬂenry Dworshak

I

and Frank Church, at the ﬁanate Office Building, Washington, D. C., and;

let them knaw of our urgent pleas‘and demands to have humane laws en-

acted in this aessien, for incraased pressure and demand on our elected:

representatives for their consideration aad sufport mean increased in-
fluence in the fight to carrect, by enactment -nto law, this tragic
injustice and cruelty. Citizens should also write to each member of
the Senate.Agricuiture i Farestry Committee,.or to the members from

 




-3“

.thair §t§t8~er the state nearest them; They are:

Won. Allen J. illander of Lauisiana
Olin “. Johnston of Smugh Caralina
speasard L. Walland at Florida
Jamea 0. Eastland sf Mississippi
Hubert W. Humphrey cf Winneseta
W Kerr Scatt af North Carolina

' 3tuar¢ §ymingtcn 0f Wissauri
Herman a. Talmadge of Gawrgia
George W.‘A1ken of vermcnt
Wilton R. Young of North Bakota
Edward J. Thye 0f Winnesata
Beurke B. Hickenlooper af Iowa
Earl 13. Wandt 0? South Dakota
John J. Williams cf Delaware
.Andrew F. Schaeppel of Kansas

and all may be addressed: Senate Office Wuilﬁing, Washingtan, E}. C.

Helping our pitiful food animals should be regarded as a dedicated
mission. Because meral values appear to us to transcend all others,
we have faith that Gad dasigned and established a universe governed
by mam: law vhich requires as to display apalitlw of goedness,
Justice and matey not enly in cur dealings with.eur fellowwmn but in
cur treatmmnt of cur brothers of the lower kingdcma of life. “In-
asmuch as you have done it unto one of ﬂhe least 9f these my brethren,
you have done it unto We.“

1 d0 mat wish.my name t9 appear, but weuld appreciate year considera~3
tien of an editorial on the need far humane slaughter legislatien.

Very sinceraly years,

(Wisa).Amelia Sahel!

 




 

HERD or STOCK HIT BY
TRAIN ON mam-onwm

Six head of yearling feederi
stock belonging to Walter Buh-l
ler were killed and several;
more crippled when hit on the'
Union Paciﬁc Railroad rightof—
way near Dingle Sunday even-
ing, by a west bound freight

train.

Unknown to «Mr. Bsuhler, some f
32 head of cattle were reported
to have wandered from a field
suothtwest of Montpelier onto
the rightaof-lway. _They formed
in front of eastbound passenger
No. 18 and would not leave the ’
tracks. Near Dingle they were
hit by the oncoming freight

 




0

999 ChriStine St9V999,
Society f9r Animal *39999tiv9
795 Fifﬁh V9 me

3. " 4:3 i?) 32‘?
Yd I'K

($35-

V

a.

x
\V, O

3

7'“ w 7. 53‘ I. 9
near 999. Stevens
9

*‘1

tt9199?r

v

1

I received your 19 9f 99
9.9 happy t9 infcrm
“91.t9 amrlcuiu r9
Mt: circmll r letier
f ebruarv 17.
9.119; 93. the 99:72
my L9t9999 999:
C9r Qut mat;
09nd ‘
5919119
Iii 9;. -43119993'
9V9 99 thugnt
Staggea by in
9999599
‘ 9

3.)

~9r99trm
I 99019 E
I g-V9 99 irﬁrp
91 T3119 9:; 3?on 9

4-
U A. a £3

“5

r
I4.

a

1~und;
. Li§3;’ Ci'_21<3.31€3
yQIKE‘TQT
“ii—Lllted ta.)
941911 9 eult
Sufi: ..LL;1 L- .13. V63 tiLI‘Q
991 car, meantiﬁe
in VaILQQS 99 t0
999999 9et 99 99999
9999 affice

PAS"
'».\. v.
16

* .J.
In! 4 0‘ !
.. ,5

iLx-

4.-.1
1.4L

/
f l

1...

111 51k. \‘i: oui- 2.41.3».

QC”

) " If; 0 9 . ‘- a" ‘4 ""
.Ll Kw l 9 .21.: E; LBJ. 1:: (L x.) l
'. _ ~'1 ‘ 1 ‘4” '3 FR ’1:
i14b1$b but.

S ,.+

.1. {31—1}...

453'] ‘i? :"i t .L-a. e

h?
- r9 999' 919 to
J
nitt99;
es 99? 9rinti9.
affiﬂeﬂ 9y

Which I
9999199 m 11. 9“.1we

a

(:39. =3}

f .4!" ":°\ "
9.9.

W , T
, .. . ,. .L.
.h‘;g;be 1

t he 73.7

9999 9

mi

.1
4.

{'53
\-

tﬁ‘h“ +?3C3
:.J'

U

.’ 'I’ -.~

k’ .23.: a ‘2
C“ rs w
1.72 \a H. i. i

999
rxcx
1u9ing: even
1 991999
Thursday
.9. So that,
het 983939, 9&0
cat 9909 t9
999919 th

‘33 De I‘
aniy
Ll‘

LL61]
13'?“
.1.

”ts,

3.); ... L E?

-91
1x
t 19

will

.9
1‘9: 3.?-
T 3". )r 1’?!
. ~.-L 3".
.11”

if};

7‘1

l-(M f“
3...... A A

mi
be Mr 99
iiésaltzl
:tcr

)‘ GHQ

r:- ~ 4.. ‘ .."
(TV. 63 173$ ‘u 1.1. -11.

St.

av

Qf )ur 999

("1 \ ”a “
xeureta
L991?

f”u tn9. t I ha? V9
”309919969

€11.11“

QC) X
‘999XWF3TV

rV—Tr9999r9r

;19tiQ

\

39
... " .. .41... Q.
vrltu99

999 999999
- $99
lit C
QY‘L ".=ii
the airmLuariar tLA
9 t9 get it from 999
999-3, 9 thgught 999 999
L99 Baby-999699 iurg9t t9
Iraiszwgd." .u.c.zL-
t9 i999
Siie
993

“i n
.2.

999 . t9 9999

.1951? O E? I” 5??»

«. L.) L
533 {7-3 {(23
"i " ‘

“‘1

r} 1v“'\{’i

C999

99

Y

4'..." J.

.mAuA

it}
Hi
119199
an it 3 ,
999m 99 999 9999195
t3 :8 Qﬁe get 9f lett9r9
99 99919 99 1991919
f9; 9 JL<1L5Ht
V9 . v“1 199
c;:€

9:59" 999

1
v
A}:

..L.’ .. ..
Laf
L99999€j
._ .. .4- .1

:24. U..:'..L 5i amt.

‘4

., . . q
A v 3 ‘. i
I‘ ‘3.

734,. k)
t

,4.)
l

ﬁ.ﬂﬂ
11 L
b ('2:

~99'

r1 V“

-5t
999199
tar 3‘“

V)

#3,.-

'LJ.
.5

\ J‘LLll-‘th-b 1

. ‘(w’
3 1., "x

If?)
.’-\ i
-

1’1 (“3.

11

”Tejy199d
TC“ 08:531.:
taem
9919

C 675

+ if"; L'.
U L; -"

fa

‘le’.
LL)

w ~.&r~.;.

1‘6...» ,

~ 91
n. I '3 O

J...
' fia£31r3u U C, {‘_

 




\

SWLLIng/V-c/ityb /

,3
E
3
‘33,
33
I;
g.
3'.
if
S
33%
b
3
C

3 m I, 4.. _ -I ,3 I: 3-.
[13.411763 ‘ 2' 4‘ VI .113“ RS

that the 3r are nCt 33133 tCCQCCC i3 ICC Cru31 133~3313 333 and
causing thCm t3 CuffCr ﬁCrture far 1033 CCIiCCC. T3333 CCCr.CIC3t3rCS
CIC Caly 30ti33 33 G33 iCCCHCCC for them to 30, 3:3 hurt 33 333. In—
3333, tney 3 IC 1303331313 3f 133110113 hurt 333 uCCCCCinCCS, 33 we
, " Cot Cf 333‘0 inhumanity t3 awn
~‘ ‘ . ' _ . .. ‘. ‘ 2,." o u "3 a - ’_
I .3 3r ~33t33t—I 3 3.; GCHICC3I tr3 3 3111 30 33 the

T Th3u33t 3f the 3333 thing in connCCCiCn 3133 the 330:~I3bbit drive,

mCIIC 3351- e,- .3 3 hum3ne , ititutC for the Crut321 01333133 nCW
CCinE uCe3 i 32“ , to 33C'; CI 333‘ 3f the next T”Obit kllllnﬁ
Crives in 13333, CI 2: Cat know 333 ”CIIJCIC 11v €361 OCCUTv

TCCCy - ".mif C ‘5.; 3g 3» ”j * 3'31 :3. tleCL ; from
~33 PCTI 3 333'; 2 '3- VI: “ 3333 F3113 33C had hCr ,339
Silver F:;' V 19 in «T..”2Iq33*. {I n 3 Ex 0“? C. Some:ii.re
bet“€9n C33 3:2 333 33333y ‘ a , I_QC w«gui :‘5 miles .I 33 here
3333 ‘13::1C.33CC .11 ICCJVCCJ'CAC C13; fdxyn‘the or r3te~1332f833 it: :rt
Eat 333y I: 3 3 C 1 r n tiiroug jh tie 3 33133 333C C) 3333 3 233
i3t3 thC :I T :3 EC“ 31 tﬂe CAT; 3 MJQI W35 3 eu¢¢ in tne CC V3311
3333133} 2' 3 “C ' 3nd thC {Cg 031330 t3IauI3 it. I tncuI tie train
lurcued l I V 335 out. Tney ICICCCC it 1311 335 tuIImle in
I333 CHCCn I CIUJCI 3*»; 13‘32 ﬁtugiiiihgt t3 fdxnﬁu“ut CCCﬁIICiieauCt
it $33 nC3I. T33 3'»‘ 133 CCCI 3 CCIVCuC CICIICQM , tCC CCQGCI"~IJCC
CCCCCCCCt ICCCWCCC '" CICCCCC irum CCC 3330K 33t 13 find Cer 303 in
135163 CI: CC, III): CI»); 3113.. {31.32.3362 We after 3331:3313. 33.363 :3 1333/6 She
is IC JItCC to “ “3 ’23 maritalCiiii'iult3183 With 3 uuoo ( rev
CCIC 313 i3 833 3 C L‘ 5? Her ?T€uu8 03 rue 3333 from 133 33113
t3 LCCCuCllJ. , 2 UtCIh hivieion 3nd I understand section
CICWC 513CC~WCICCIC,' - 3..3 C It 33t to se3rch for iﬁ {but I Can‘t
3333333 until Caurs 13CCI}; :23; W33 he3r3 t3 r333rk to the CWnCr,
”1311 "“Cn 33 gets hunzry he 3' ‘7 some hCuCe for fCOC.” The
C313 him the 303 W33 I.. I211,E ~ 3333 333 that it might CC
t0 bin, but ta 3;~; ,-g ~ﬁquenT93 3 pet 3nﬁ thig
1333 to them. I :., .1,I I 333C 3 33‘3 instinct Would
3tC him t3 Inn 33‘3 the trCin 3333 he Tighten
with such fCICC 333 brake 3 133, 333 is lying
I felt 533'3331y [t2 1 h33.*ﬁwe imnu1CC +33 33
'Chway tonith 3 CCI W I 33 m3t i311113
I't313 them it WOW1C3~ .In, _ me that the section ngw
33313 39* ' "r 3 tICCC insiectian 3I3 3:3rch for its f3ot~3I
where it v t. r 333 3333 ,vTLf ~ tiyiwe 3333 them 333 2
WhCIC 1C 3:, T33 inciﬁent Clici 3 number 3 ~31133.1 EC?
‘ they CCIC 33 133 Chane t3 3 I tIe COT'“ name, 3 G
CV 3‘33? is: “the 233311 ~- but the 2.23.13 33113;:
f1.iei 0131;} :3 3 ICC 2v-ggwIe~33331ICIIC‘visor
M giVC t 'iie nhIe of W I”; W X, told me after
bung uC that “ ,3333‘311333 333 gIW.. I 3313 they
3333 1 CIV" I— '. an 1133 r2 “iuwzreqtly 13
31““ C : “4'23“3 3 m‘ 3“? ZI “CiCI ’ living;. 36
' ' “ " 3t tile 3
CACII : 33VC Irmi ta

3- 2' 33. z . -‘~ 3,-3.3 A 4" ' . ~ - . 3
3r deCJKADJ 31?ICIJCCCtC :2. 3.. I CWVC

J—— 3. II‘ 2 f" f3
1.14.“: IL"... I, OJ}. :12-

 




F's

:‘jV e-
F ‘6»

LL

"'1
‘ 1.
y

9

; m. r ,
uni mo m»
k, .

3 1.4:)

--L

‘

m .
.51.};
7‘3 \
-'~« .

16
.v 33
L .’\.z .4»;

”V

y

M

y . ‘9
5, i 1
(:ii A.

.

. 1
.4.

vr‘\
, : .

4

“31”} f'"7'.11 E“,

7 Y} 4’.
4.13:;

”(:1
.L‘.

N
g“

4

. {‘33 f7} ‘"?

3.75.:

m "r"- .x
|
14

-4
C ‘1. J, E: O

I

i L

Y

.w

A
W.

V-W.

1.. .U
a
o

.L

x}

O
.r‘
«L

1L8

3 $45.65;;

.E

'3" ‘"
v1 r. J

{L- 1' a“;

17"

0333.13!

:F‘ '7' '5
3. Wlf’;

J L) .L .1. f:

1f". I“
.L J.

”A:

E? ‘51:") JAMZLZ 7"
‘1‘)“: F

It? 5:: , ‘5 ’

2

Th}:

{v ,e‘
k‘v.'.“,

" 3.3. .‘W

1'

i"

 




an124 . ~ (I : ~
VT{“€”Lf;4/éaa“"77t E It éox 255, Pocatello, Idaho
MAW. u. #L’Q’W; wake W. March 11, 1958
Mrs. Christine Stevens, Secy.-Treas.,
Society for Animal Protective Legislation

745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

I enclose letters I received from Frank Church dated March 6
and one from Henry Dworshak, dated March 4. The one from
Henry Dworshak is a nice friendly letter. They sound encourag-
ing.

M» ‘W M. ¥
I enclose a typewritten note an a 6-page leaflet entitled t’AN
ACT” received from Senator Dworshak, signed by the Clerk, which
I have not as yet had time to read, but perhaps you are familiar
with it. If you would like to see it by the time I receive your
request no doubt I will have finished reading it.

Please return the two original letters to me, after gnuxhanex
they have served their purpose.l presume you have quantities of
work to dotigfc (yea; on with this legislation.

0-

Iram é§¥ﬁ@”ﬁ , ‘r tie Pfost, answering her letter{, and
inasmuch as she has commented "I am sure you have already

made your views known to the Idaho Senators", etc., and will
send her a copy of thgqletten;¥chaxe:m£i££en.to Senator Dworshak
and Senator Church,tuhich I am sure will be of interest to her,
and let her see how M l have made my pleas andciemands.

Meantime, no doubt, I shall hear from you with your comments on

my letters, as i should like to know if that is the kind to

write, even thgggg 3l% I have said made a lengthy letter# but I
feel, the more Xx ike a legal brief, the better and the

more impressive they are,to show whatlymu intend for them to do, as
axxyaux representativegin Washington.

I received your samplings of editorials, together with one leaflet

and the other enclosure - giving the names of the members of the

Sen. . on Agri. & Forestry. l have not seen anything in the

papers;/ I do not get time to read the Idaho State Journal evegy

night; and the lntennountin t'ﬂlameda Enterprise is publishedw Au LL

weekly. .Hay Weber subscribes to the Idaho State Journal and she
told me she would let me know if there was anything in that paper. I
think I'll send each paper one of the samples, with my name sticker on it--
just enclose it in an envelope.

Jeannie Tharp has not been to the office since Monday. In this place
no one bothers to tell you whether she is ill, or taking part of her vaca-
tion for personal business; or whether one of the children is sick, so I
have not asked, but no doubt she will tell me when she returns. They want t-
get a larger house to accommodate her larger family, and this might be er

reason for taking the time off. * .
(imam M

With my test wishes to you, I amv_ . 1 .Am 1. c h 11
er Sincere ours e:1a uc e
I attach copy Of my letter to Gracie Pfosez which lyhgye °ust written.

 




 

 
 

3333 333113 333311
333 255
3333331133 13333

3333 1.33 333311,
On 23311513 33 3;?
333'33 33 ”113333 333

3331333333 331 yam? *

61-3.,
3333333 3

   

 
  

330333 33
333 33333 33

33 33 331 33

5'
. “3 M {5-3:
5511 3135’}. 19 3.11-1.13 '3.

Cﬁmmit3m
31133 J3
3331

3.331313
313333333333333

 

11"?3

Mania.

M33333
333 33333.

1'33 .

3mrr3 333333
3333
:13

3.313323: yam

1131313213

h3r 333333333

 

3333 133333 333 333 3333133
3111 33133 333

33.13 1333333, 333 1.. 3133 3333
3433 3113 1333

333 £333 331313“ 33 333
“‘73 1.1151
333
331 3333'133313 3.3333133
33333 $313333, 13 2233313
33 33313313333
23333333 33
A11 3333 13
3333 333 £33 333 33333 3 33 33

, . "9, 3
3333331*
333 3333 3333, 3333313113 3333 311
“.113 33313313

€33 133333133 3333“
133 my 33 33331 33331333 ”333313333“
13 33333 "3311 rin~333‘,

“3334 33333 333 1333333 333 333 3 13 33333313 33331

I 3333 3333 113313 1333333.“? 13 3311.

‘33393 103-1958

 
  
   
   
    
  

   

If‘ﬁ

3333 3333 333 13 in 3313333333, 3333:3333»3 £33

33 333133 31;y333 3333 3333 123333 33 3333
33333333 333333333 33 3133 333336331“ 33 33333
333" :33 33; 333 33 3333 3311 ‘ 3233333333 1 33 3333

f V ’33
Ca (-

”141F313

      
      
   
     
  

33 3333 3:: 333 3333 33333

 
 
 

     

33330: 3, 33 13 13,

3t 3:333 3 33 @335“ 4‘ ,1 M 33333
ﬂit}?! vwmny E333 '

m0ﬁEV§fg

   

:33»?

    
 

€111.31 3‘1 3

313 13 333333 3~33, 33 33*3 133 .111
~rw 3n. H!“ 3.. :. ’g: «3.: 3' 1) .m- . 4-? a »
33 33333 3 333333 33 1333333 ; 2&333333 H 33 33

.ﬁ 3 “3%
*3.
a“;
’ 3’

     
      
  

.2 ., .. 1. _, 3 . ' 3 333. . 3
Mimm -3341. ' 3:33 3333-: 3... :3 e333»,333331313 2:333 3.3
. 3 3,3 3.3 w "1“ "23* . ‘

11 13 131* 33 133” 13 333‘ 333”? 33
"'3 3"“ 1:3 .3. F1 “31 3 v“ 3 13: 3 333

  
  

33 3 11 3* 33333 33 3333333

   
 

 

1;?133
336‘

 

, 31$ “1
W“ fr 7‘ #1 {Na 213”“; ﬁr: ﬁhwww€x
331,39? 1:30 113157;

     

1131 “3 1“” 3: 1 3333,
1.113333 7 ~33 133:3
‘Zﬂfif'ﬁtfﬁﬂt 3g};

    
      
    
     
  
   
     
      
     
 
   
  
 
 

w" 1 h ”
3313;13

\‘.

33'13333 33333333.

5 ”3 3333 133 31333 H3 3333 333 311 333 “331 3333

a: _‘ x ‘4 m, 3‘ "Yr
”:3" 1:“ 331:1 33* 333331333 3331.11.313 3.. 3 3
a ..g ‘3 ~.. . ,3. Q - L '1.- ‘2 13331.33. 13'} _“‘ : 45> .. 1
333333333 333 334 3333 13 333.3333 333335333333

WE" ”Mar-7 $1} ,3; "1.571: 115113? 113’???»
3333.33 33 333? 33333 $33 3333 333
333 33333 fﬂim ”3313 333 3333,33.3y
33331333313333”

1333? 333 333 333333r HP 333 333333 333 £33

"3 $33

3333 3333*“ 33 3333

3133333133

333313133 333313333
1133 3113333

  




_ Box 255, Focatello, Idaho
, Dear Mrs. Stevens, March 5, l958 E'; 6,}

« reagee<=
Did you hear on the radio and read in the paper that the next “WY
satellite the US will send up, will contain a living monkey. That is

a life and when the spark is gone there is nothing that can put the
spark of life back into its little body, and I cannot see the sense of
putting a living animal in a satellite for it to whirl in space,

kax frightened and terrified, squealing with no one to rescue it - only

to have the fate of the darling dog, Leika.

l hOpe the Humane QOCieties throughout the country will strongly
protest such a thing. If it is possible for a man to go into space

in one, at least he knows what it is all about from his scientific
knowledge, but an animal has no such consciousness, and only acts

the way God intended for it, and I can't bear the thought of a living
animal to be whirling around in space, without knowing the reason why.

Very sincerely yours,

/ (”I 9' 331-1., «(0‘ .: - J} '1 {Lelia "’ ~

(Miss) Amelia Schell

 




1&3” gmry 1E1§§3

$23..
§ﬁa51@1,~.

‘2: $ 1: , . . ,. w . v
way-1. wt? m 9 v , ‘ "a! 2 ,. 3 ' ., "
.3, 13.1.3.1, {54:51.3 ‘2? “£33 a v,

3‘“ If" .51.
-3... .313? 35:;

Eh yam : . vw '7) $3313";
.116 3.2.3.31 3.9 3.35.. 3a.'2;.r

i} 31.“ :fy"éii}“¥l.31°

MA“.
:..£ unify-Mu. 3;;

211,31}; 1&5? ’ 1-3. .- .. _
“ ‘ ‘ ., My 422-. 1‘ FM 34‘ m
'1 , DICE

‘1‘
I

t

. 1A *5; .3
.a 2 ~; mums; 1:52.;

1». 4»- "ram
.. ,1.
ittﬁlaw“ '

RT 1“ -
v13: 1» ﬂ if." ,er a. -- - ,‘ '~
“3‘35; {£91 (‘33 :{J m; .. I .3... , - - Lﬁi‘tﬂz git":
_ ‘1 1 _ . 1 a 5;, . ”331‘“ '31
’ ' H w}, $3751? mm. a

’ V' '7 2r ' 1’“
a? 15% 11m

«*':"’3,;:.:; ‘ . , "a 3 :2
£91.“,; (-25} «LL-54:3

(334,2 ENE-36 $3.-an33‘8 ”I“: 2331.2? fwthil
m . ﬁiﬁuzg thﬁé:

m, gmrxy l ﬂitnib kﬂﬂﬁ W1
3m; 11:11.1

1151 yam are mwi 1; IMQm Statem ”115 :
waaék 1%? a vigiﬁ ‘v 113% :0 mr1 and tﬁa~ t

:1”:
1:0 313:: 313:”
15% as kmmw'if gag 55°

11

Eaat‘wishaﬁa
ﬁincﬁra1y$

rwﬁaryw?maa$urar

 




F‘J /)
"F ‘r . J J / . , . r-~/f j r ‘ / 1“” ,f‘ ’ 5/. ‘ ff
,L ., ,/)4f7( Z») X , J [WC/é. (LL (a , Jim/Ls

LL” { o L (7‘ 3 57’

J21, 4/ Z’ ,fr”
L W, A m» LN mew

Q7 7-‘Zk éﬂ¥( 72:7 V Vé’L/ZZRM

"/J'J‘VLWJ ,LJJ/LLCRLLC/ 7, LJ/TL L J /J -{ [/LJ/ 7‘ “—

I
=72)" Lb [Liszil W "7/4 {/ /[C\) /‘€ kxﬂ. L ”’
JL/ New.» 6 9L7 [J:( (qu/ (75 j\

/7\"}"c/”L:/ (t {gm j 2 \y’z'"?
7’ka [Mk—(j [C(RLL‘KJ/CL)‘ (LL(LJ\ ) 1.x, [L

J/ (/V»;t‘: ‘LLK. 2k}: “K 3 53/2 '1‘: 7LLL b C VU/ /L\L )L f 4!?

 




2/

7”

"x ,3—

[£1 (201“0 ,/"(//\«Q ”Ll/'1, / pvt/LN (If/ﬂ) ,7 «(1\

CLO/I1) 7L 4,63,, 5‘ eff“— é’f V4” La ”7/ \JC 61L» ~43.» '

\ f, l Ix
<5” C31] r bx o\,~;,w»\ (23 J” I /‘)L V1 J1; u m.» ‘ /L 1-1 ML
L’F/ ;:\‘ iv' iV ’ // [[11, LQ«( ( QIJK LLLF/
C C \ ) j b v [Z KC . (J JAJLCML’JX
'VIZ’L%//% , (Sari 13/ ‘9 ZCCC :1 37A / 0Y' a? / Z \w a” LL

H] CL “21 (’1 ( 7 [Cu 1 ML li/‘vC-L’VV CCU“) " ﬂit/CL
{W (ix x“ «v‘f‘J’V‘H‘ . , J [ _
{ f ‘- I, (( «I» {L L V
£Z€LZ¢\ 2’ .9 [1’7an 2W1 , (1 / \ ~«( / 1* [(4] LC” [4K x Z/
14‘ If; V mag-v Iwu M W
,- - g) 15‘ , Jﬂ/vtfd/ g/K
) C PM gl‘élbf \Iw/E-‘J ’I/A (/Lx, ( L

I 1111:4va 9 m ““7

(,2
k3 ; Mﬂ’lwﬂ CL/ / L if “I
4/” h w /4 PM [L 4 4 ,5

éLif Li” )LLL/I/ /IL,« ) H7

: , (LIL:
$16 CAL/é- Z, kl”; I I“ ’
,.ﬂ all/WU“) 241/ ,, \ CL 14(92’9L :( W‘s/Q We?“
' I ., (7- 1L " M
1‘ , , / ~ L ( _ : 7 ". L7 ithm) Sam

va‘afm‘

21/ 75

1/6")

b why (ft/5 11);} +77% Wu . 1,
XML/U4 1

(ml/owh fc/qM

 




 

 

 

11111111113 31.11 3 1.353

11111 1.1111111. 11111111.

2 1111 11315
11:33; 31111111211311? 3 3:1 7-

 

25‘".-

“3‘3’ 3111’: 3311111111

‘111111. 31111 11111 3111.111 11.1.1111 111111 111111111. 1.111 12111“ 1311111W” 211.2151 11111111 21 1.11.111
1111111111 :121 11111 1 11.21.11 1111 111111111 1111.. 1.1111111 11111111 113111, 1111 1111111111111 31111
15 111111.111.- 111‘ 1115‘- 1111111111 11121311111 111111.111 1:31.111 11111.1 1.11113, 32.3111 1111111111113
1111 111111111 31 11121 11113111111111 11131 11311113 1111111111 1111113111111; 1111 111111111 31111 11121.

 

 

1111 121111.11 1 1. 1:13.111 11 3111111 1111111 .333. 1.11;. 1.11111 1111 1.111:1..1sg1;1111 11211 1111:1111; 1111111
1:11 1.11:1 1111 1111113 11111 111 11111 111.11... 1.11 111111111 111.1 1.111 1113111111111 1:111 3111:. 111111111 .11. 1111.1. 3
11:1" 11111111113 11:1 111:1 11111112111111.1111

1111111.: 11111 1.111 111111. 1111113111 1.111 1.11. 31311111111: ‘~'3'111t * 111 1121111 31111.1 3m“ 111111 1111
11111111111“ 3.111112 111.11 11.11 111.111 1211 111121: .1: :1 11:11.3 111111211111 1

 

11111 31111111 “*3 ‘31:. 11111:. 1.1 1.1 :11: 1 11. .1. 111111113 11111.11 111... 1.111.111.1113 111d
11111 1.1111 11111311111111 31:11: 11.11.111.11. 1.111 11 11.1.1... 1.11111 3111.11 .2". 1111111111 111111;: 113133111111 111111
11111111 1:11 111-131 1.111112 11:1 111111 1113' 11:... 1111111111: $111.11 2.1.1.13 1:11.11. 111:2 1.12133 .111 111113131; 1111
11111111111111.1111... 1111.11.13 3... .1... 1.13 1.2.1 11.1.1; 3 .. 1... 111 11.1. .1... 1111.1... 113 1111. 1.1111111 11. 1:53.111
111111 1111: 111111.11; 111.. 11111. 11.1. 1.1 1.111: 1111:} 1.2.1 1.... :1 .1 .1 1111 (21.11.1111. .1. 1121110111 “1111113..- ' 1111111171
11111 1.1.11 3.11 .1111: 11111.1 111. 1:11:11“ 1.11": ...1 .111... 1 .1111 1.1113 1.- 1.11. 1... 3 11.1: 1.1111 113111111311
11111313111: 111111111111 1 1.111111 111111111111 1.12 121.111 1.11 1. .11. .131 1.121: 111111 1.1111 1.1:: 111-1113111113 121111111111'
13.1113 11111 1:113 .. 11111211111 11.1 11:1 1:111 .1211: 1111111111 $31.11* 1.2112 111121....;11-. 1111.131 1 111111111113 31111111113
221 1:111 111111 11111111.... .111...111.....3 1.11.. 1.1.1.1 1.1.1.1.. 1:11 11111111111112.3111 .11 1 11111111111 11111111111111.-
11:11-21 1111 1111111.. 12111 1:11.. 11111 111.1111: 111.1111. 1....1 1111 11211111 31:11: 1.12. 11.1111. 111.11. 1:11 31111111
1.11“ 131111, 113.311. 11112111111 111.11 1113’ 1113.1 121.1 11111 1.111 .1111. 1.1... 1.11 1111 121111.111 11.131. .. 3': 11111311 111111
331.111» 1.11 111111111 1.11 1.111 111111.121; 311111

   

 

 

    

 

 

 

11.11 111111111111

111111111133,

11:11. 11111311 1.1111111

11.11. 111111 3111 11111.15. 1.111 111 1111.1 11111111111 111' 1111 11111111 1.311111111111111 11111. 1211131111113
(1111111111111 111 11.11.1121 .111 111121 1111111113 5111 121112111111 111.113? I 111311 3111:. 11111.11.
W113 1111311 1 1111111111 5 112.9? 1 1111111111313 11. 11:11:13 111111 11111111113...

 

 




Box 255, Pocatello,
February 4, 1958

Mrs. L’hristine Stevens, Secretaryalreasurer
°ociety for.Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue, Room 812

New York 22, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:
' (in my PO box on Sunday)

'I received your noticez/air-mailed, of the bill for humane~ .
slaughter coging_up on the floor of the House on the 4th, and wrotedquv
letter_yt3a%ach of the 4 elected representatives from ldaho._ 1 did
not have Sufficient graphic leaflets to send one to Senator Church,
but in my latest letter i enclosedf‘bneml/Wq M.

i enclose friendly letter from Gracie Pfost, M.C., also Henry
Dworshak, US Senator, which I would please ask you to return to me for
my file, along with the four anxvﬁn x'— or three- previous ones re—

ceivedqu‘tﬁ 16‘»-

I am thinking of the welfare of these animals, today, and
told each one that I am interested in God's creatures which are unable
to speak for themselves, and go to their slaughter terrified, in order
that we humans may eat their flesh, and that we must be victorious in
this measure, and that the bill must be passed.

before midnight,83n%ay, .
I sent my letters air mail special deliveryL/aa£_aéé ﬁre that
they would get on the train to :alt Lake, arrive there about 8AM

Monday, the 3rd, and probably be in Washington the afternoon of the 3rd
and the special delivery would surely have them to the addressees by
this morning.

The girl in the office told me this morning that hers got out,
I believe a mail plane(the last one) leaves here 9PM,
r~# she sent hers air mail special delivery, sashyxwdre.
Yesterday sle told me if she had to she w>uld send night letters.

One case (and this is confidential, absolutely) of an death of
an animal in a car was due to the construction of the feeding, or water-
ing trough. It seems while the animal was using it, his head got caught
between two mamas pieces of wood construction, and was unable to extri-
cate it and choked to death. It is just horrible to write about these
things, when they come to my desk. It seems that they sent the carpenters
and B&B (Bridge a Building) supervisors to investigate the car, and found
“that it was due to the construction of the trough. Presumably nobody
ever thought the animal would get his head in between that place. If I
recall aright, it was a prize 4-H animal. 1 would not want to become in-
volved because of mentioning this, as l wogggghave no defense. I am
sure you will understand this. Our livestoc raffic Department/representa-
tive is located in Salt Lake City 1, Utah.

I do so hope that this measure for the welfare of the animals will
become law. My other friend, I doubt, wrote letters, due to lack of time.
5he and I both feel badly ah>ut it, unless she was able to do so last
night. She teaches small children and has much work to prepare at home. J
.Am writing this in between my office work, and with best wishes, I am ,,ﬁ~

Very sincerely yours, (Miss) Agelaag§gggg} "\Eu
M111, v,“ _ k -‘ u

 




      
      
      
     
     
     
       
    
       
          
       

   

Q 9 “’2'“

17/.
l was shocked on Sunday, to hear the girl on the Yough u ants to Know
Progiam ask the senator if the US would be sending up a live anime, 1
in the satellites. I cou1d only think of how ignorant this girl is
as to what is really going on, and how nonchalent she mes ate gt it.
Nothing has been proved by sending up L,3 ika, except that there is a
dead dog whirling through space. '

    

   

I have a darling Pomeranian ans speak to her as thouth she we? e a human—m
she is devoted in her admiration of me when she ioo“s at me wit11 t 2 ose
big black eyes. Me have been together 10 years, and she was about 3
when given to me. When i wish to pass 2vhere siie is standin ng, # i te 11
her, "72one over and she understands that. W50: EXKUSQ me, 1 sorry if I
xxxmx he open to frighten her, or perhaps pull one of her fine hairs

i hope the U? wiil never resort to sending up'a live_animel to whirl
in space. It is a deplorable and debasing thing.

     
      
      
 

They are guzzing around my desk, So I will conclude.

   
 
 

In my letter requesting the representati ﬁes to be on the floor and vote
I incorporated many things from your notice, aoplicahle to my case.

A

  
      
      
   
    
  
  
   
   
  
     
     
        

942.: M 23/ f 22M 2 a , 2,222/2sz ’% ’2752M 15’ #3 274 22/2 92: 222 21221222212223 5‘V’VVV‘1’Q‘WW’QY ’
5 2%,W/ (2%, H2222 922,2, Aw 2’, 22,. Z 22,222

a4’61v M.» CU>{ A} (I [C LII/441% ,9 “:4 V Vt}, VKCQJ til ,2 /v/ 6 L," V I
. , \ ’
blé k); (501/ng 1% WL‘K‘VQ‘l/w 7 4.2;) 9 0(1) AAA/1r AZ/(‘Jff/ ﬂ KKK/5 / M/

2wa QWT745421‘W [ 4/1 ”ﬂ
Q;4%,w¢ Ath; {.9lww1LaL.aAAmwuukig 1W4A¢0 ”M”*{ ‘L7aéup¢. CZp6rLQé
W M 2“” W WWW'%WS

242111272752“me
‘Wiﬂ7bgik7'21ku1ly4vézuiz£' 7&444_ hméxyia C%Lm%~¢ﬁ~( /bez¢éaﬂ?4zWZE
9W Wags/2222212 MW WeAmW

ELQCIA/ «Awevvu.ac>94umi
KWA"LLH$0X3 4] “:94 WVM/aw

2222222222 22222222222

Q;

r

2 2 /
“WI/.2 2
J®%ﬁk L222wﬁs

W 1’ ”$5M M ﬂwfﬁ 5:222
~ i62ﬁL¢ 7%a222¢,, ‘{ VVVWLW 41%“5
WWHWWWWWWﬂmmqa

 




 

'3333 1333 33
.. a 3
:1...“ 31511

“’t: ,51_ if“!!!

‘.M,".!.

333
ﬁﬁur35& 133.33
33333333 3333.3333
31 133 333333 33

:1: 333 331.33 333.33
333313 1333 33 333
13.333333 33 3333
133 333331 P333333 33
133 3333333 33 333

3333 3333333

1:1
gjﬁaéﬁ 1.11% .‘a
1133.331133333 H3~hﬁ3xt3n

ﬁﬁtﬂﬁ

333 3333333333 33333 33 1

33333333 1, 1953

   
  
     
     
    
    
    
   
   
  
 
   
      
   
   
   
    
  
      
  
  
 

11333 33: 133 3333 133333 33 3333333 213“ 31313333g $333333
03333313313‘333;3 1 33.333333333 33 3331 1 3333 33333 3‘3 3111
333 311 333133 313.333 33313333; 333333 {13310333} 33 333 M3
3311 *“3 “1'33 33 33 33331. 313333 33 v33 3333 333333 313233 3333
13 31 333313311” 133311131 133 333133 3 33 1.331 133333 33 333333

333 313 *3 23 33333 ‘333 33 3:11 33 033333 13333313 33 333 133.

1333 333 333 333331333 gau¢%3c333 33333 333 33ifnr*3 4333
311313 ‘13 z: 3133 1331.13“ .1113 3.131.311 3i ‘1' M 11311 11:13.3 131115..
3333 3333 3 ”3M3 333 3333333 33 3333 333 111333 31“. :13 3:111 3.3m
33333 3333 31;; 3333333333 3333 i3 13 33333 3233 haw 3133 333313 33
331 ”a. 33313 333*33133 3 131333 33‘333 133333? huﬂv 3333 1311333
1131313 1333.21 {331.31 331 3 93:13 11:11 3333 31‘; 133333 19.133 3‘13” 11333:, 11131
3333; 31.31323 33 “333 1333333 33 33333333331

01'33p3.-33n3333333, 03
33333 33 13333 33333333.
33 313 33333 31 333‘
1‘33 333 33 333333333

Ca

33
1333,
333 333 331

1
...x» a;

13 3333 333331“ 33333 333333333 cf 1333»
33333333u3 ”areakuinwtwaﬁ 3.33?

33333133, 1 33.33 3311333 3313333 th3 ﬁaciaﬁy
33333133333 3313 333 333331 33133331333333333
3333131333 3333333.

ﬁinceraly)

533333333m133aaur3r

 




Casth Captive Bolt Fisﬁci $ 150299
Schermr atmer 150.“ 2,
Raminnga $Lunnﬂr 22ﬂgﬁﬁ
Schemmer halaing>davice,fer-h0gg (without ramp) 1195.08
Schm;mrh91ding ﬁaviae‘far hagg iwithamp) 13L§oﬁﬂ

54

L. 6.0223L322§L§ 2:2 9%; m6. 23:22“ 53;, www’rtt ;: W 62%
* ’53er “ :2 lb 2’ 31 C62” FL .31" $362” 3 '

:31: EC’C’WC'W’ 263,151,312 {3333" 39’3326:aberouoo’oaaaaoaaaneoeaaaaatﬁ .3530 Of}
(35"? 31’2"” {353 3:20 ﬂﬁfwfﬁ $5ny {ﬂirtaaaaaausaaaaﬁeaoaaeaaoa game m
32.: 3.3%" 151:3 3"“ 53 :T3’5QI‘ Atalrooaaaoaamoawaaaaoqsaaagaaounwfig7m$m
151:3” 5.26:1! 39"} 5"“1‘3 $7333? 33.01!oaoaeauaaa»aoaaaaanaéaeggoocmag?m {:30
3&3, 333:) ﬁfi} hﬁriﬁ? 331:3? Jailrogmoaacaaawm-soaasasoo’anaaaaoBlgmom
23.1753“ 116.3 riff L“‘”““‘ @531“ ji'ii‘eaoewaaoa :20039$ﬁﬁ¢$9¢l9~1630053§3m}0m

w

 




Box 255, Pocatello, Idaho
January 27, 1958

Mrs. Christine Stevens, Secretary—Treasurer
Society for ,Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue, Room 812

New York 22, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:
1hank you for your very kind letter of January 23.

I am in receipt today of the reply from Senator Church,
which I have been looking for. In my reply to him, I intend,
as I did to the other representatives, enclose your printed
letter and a leaflet which will show him what is going on, and
how these defenseless animals are being treated before they must
die, so we may eat. In fact, if you will iamediately send me w
about a dozen, or even about 15 more copies of each, I will send he
him several.

I enclose his letter, and you will note he states "if the
Committee finds that humane slaughtering methods are economically
feasible, I will certainly agree with you that they ought to be

adopted." Will ou kindly return his letter when you send me more‘
circulars. hen was wor ing in Montpelier, 100 m les distant,he came

tgsvésééndidé’geWSrm‘i‘eia‘gt‘i’Bﬁ‘f"393‘"? willoiléﬁfﬁéonihatl finds With “S’When he

am ca 1 ng on a friend tonight, and she told me over
the phone last night that she will write, also. She read about
this tragic thing in the papers last summer. I did not happen to
see our local paper this past summer, as I was in a different town.

I have contacted agirl in the office and she has promised
that She will write.

I have been in contact also with the Animal Welfare Society,
and believe that you signed the letter from them, and their former
address was 745 Fifth Avenue; how they are downdown, in NY-S.

(The girl in the office has my file on this matter, and I anxunable

to consult the letterhead.) Novdoubt the two societies are affiliated

inbehalf of animal protection. Did I tell you that I am a member of the
NE Anti-Vivisection Soc.,Boston;also Humane Society,N.Y.,Anti-Cruelty,Chic.

I have been thinking of writing to Nicholas Ifft, publisher
of our Idaho State Journal, here in Pocatello; also the.Alameda~
Enterprise, published by Perry Swisher, also in Pocatello, enclosing
your circulars and asking them if they will publish an appeal for
people to write to the senators and congressmen, and there may be
sufficient humanitarians reading the paper to write in. I spoke to a
man in the office, and he was very phlegmatic about it. Perhaps he
is still too young, to think of any one but himself, although he is
anxa about 40. and married.

In one shipment 13 animals were found dead at various points.
What the railroad does is to trace the various points to investigate
whether there was any rough or irregular handling of the cars, or any
break-in-twos. These cars have speed tapes in them from which it can
be determined Whether there were excessive speed impacts. (Miss)

Again thanking you for your letter,lam‘Ver§¢:&ngggeiy Schell

 




1511:1311 11111111131 1.1011111
EEE ’EE
EEﬂﬁ ”13153111451; 3:531 EEEE"

1;

EEEE E-SE Eéﬂ i‘1E11a

EEEE 1nd luEtEE Ef J“uvar1 2?th 11
5EE13E a; EEE 1% EEE E13 EEEE mEvi ﬁg bhﬁ f1:3

1 E11E fu??i%@ﬂ 11 1E1+m‘ fEEE yau EEE

@5311... E

C 1-. ~ .4 ,~‘v« r ,ngm w,’ as 1‘ .1 ‘ - ﬂ} ‘1“; 3' " 'g‘n
131E 133~111L 1 EE EE1EEEEEE E1E~ 1,Eu
“(-

1'11 EEE11 Em EEEE'EEEE Eﬁuuwfﬁ z” EEEEa

6‘": 1m «5

111111.12: 33

SEE ”“131111313’ ”3.13331‘1‘113‘1”E€E -- {iii 21‘ “ r1151};
v-a‘rw. 4"} “k“ , ‘1) " ‘ ' - > ‘ ‘1' '» " g: r ‘
111 Uﬂ1ﬁuﬁrﬁ, E1213 EEE M E1EEE E? “1&11 11. 11— 1E1»
L" 'ﬂ."-; «1 , - uq'wﬁ‘ . 1:1")! . _
11123? 1.1111211. 1111551 11%? 113-113115‘11’1

1‘131111‘1‘1111" “x?-
1. 1 1. 591Eﬂ1111 EEE

EE 111'1“ 11 :v1, 4';; thE b111
-%‘*1’:‘ EEE EEE =1f;.1“““1

“10‘: 11% 1‘1"?

"how‘v

‘ ‘3 ~ ‘ ‘1‘ ‘1 . ‘2‘ 11:: 1‘
, . ~ ,- , 1V ‘ E’ £3» , ', ,1' 1.1.1 ' m , . 1‘1 .4~.-"- " | :E- ‘ I - " . "ﬁrm
1”)” E1911" 1‘: 11

63W” EW‘Z “w

111 11.1 1111‘. 1.15:, 1.511%}?

 




 

g3“? .§§§§é§§
ggéagrysﬁﬁbﬁ
V§§¢‘4}ﬁ.§. gag
Qxégkéﬁwiwédmﬁé
§§

V368,

l

gwiagfw

.3291): E 2+

 




 




.QNVQQmE

x R
5% . J
Eéiwéé‘ \»
«$45.3 §Nﬂ>§

 




»W Mam WW, '
M. /W 1%,“)
'ﬂvMW/ﬁmﬁwvA/m
W9MQ‘1W9AWMWW
“W‘Mjmwmwwﬂ-Z «

'7 %
W 9 wad/{rﬁf’xxg 9% ,

“WWW'

(Wm) M 9 MM

 




 




6 :3 Qgﬁiwg 9Q
\ iQQQgQQVQJQéQQ

QQQQXFQQQ
«3&9 gg Q<736QQQ
.wbv\25§ §J5§ 79?.
Pojgﬁgé E .ég
YQZEQQOQQQ
QEE QQYQ JéE igm QQ

.ggsgyﬁ. g?

QEQQQQQ

K vi
\?§Q§§Q§HM
9Q 3% Qémg $.wa “SQ SQQ

 




.u ﬁe?“ $§au§§§§§t r
.uAN_§§Eq§ v.35 .3
§§5§§3Q _

 




 




aiammw 23;, 3.955

gk ﬁmalia Sﬁhaii
yaﬁataliag Iﬁaﬁa

. war ~ * ,
a? ﬁﬁﬁﬁ wtmﬁilg

a???

V ﬁﬁamk yﬁu far yaar kiné iettar a? January lhﬁhe
imm? lﬁﬁﬁﬁwg ta yauy Smmatwra anﬁ Cam%*a$wmam arw ﬁauna
2% am mﬁah gﬁaﬁﬁ amé aw mauld ﬁg pﬁﬂaﬁa&.if‘ywa wmed
sﬁﬁ ma EEQW‘whaﬁ rwaymmaﬂ yam fﬁﬁﬁi?ﬁ i am.ﬁhamé

ﬁmﬁgy wgyarata_eavarﬁ %% h&¥% 3&3ﬁ ymu aha 3&3
lﬁﬁfl?tﬁ ana eirauﬁar latterg 3mm raqmwatadg aﬁd I ﬁape
yam wm%l ammguwaga a& many friamﬁa am§.meigﬁbwr£ aa yéaaihle
ﬁw'wwi$a ﬁg washingtﬁﬁ ﬁwae if yam gﬁad.mmra 1$a£latﬁ at
amy'ﬁimﬁg jmat lat ma knﬂw=amﬁ’wm§ll ha glaﬁ ta ganﬁ ﬂammw

"ﬁm avg imﬁﬁraﬁﬁaﬁ 1a whgt gam.5%y ahﬁﬁﬁ rapertg 9f
5 guffﬁrémg amﬁ ﬁﬁﬁﬁh in ﬁramﬁgartatisma ﬁg waulé bﬁ
E-ﬁm'%ﬂva ﬁﬁﬁ ﬁﬁﬁﬁfiﬁ mi yam? axyﬂriﬁmaa eamﬂﬁfﬁiﬁﬁ
‘wfmm mﬁmd Em ﬁg ﬁﬁﬁﬁ ta @?%V%m§ ﬁﬁaﬁa ﬁﬂﬁﬁrrﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁa

"4
. l‘" _
‘ 2 iii (:351.‘,.s m .3 w

1:" X ‘. ' . ad! .wa
ﬁlﬂﬁﬁrﬁ&$g
. A

Qwriaﬁina ﬁtavgnﬁ
ﬂamreﬁarywﬁwaaaurgf

 




Box 333, Peeatello, Idaho
January 14, 1:58

>0Cl€t
745

'T‘ ,1 ‘ 1
“ha; 17A: Efﬂu-
how these

'!
~.

i wrote to ;21 '1 s Henry 3worshah, > a H Church, and
Gracie Pfost, First and liamer Budge, second Bistriot
of the House of Realesedtatives, Has hington, DC asking them
if r immediate enactment of H.R 8506 and 10 do their uimost to
bring about decent treatment of animals in siaughterhouses; and
to vote for eompui sory humane slaughter bills.

I s
and t'1a t i look
is so com p1ished.

tPte <1 th't t11is legislation must be p:
‘ to

339d this
es to see that

51;".9

&

a
my elected representativ

I wrote some portions of the matte Pr con1r iinPd in your
1etter and leaflet, such as that it is appalling to res. lize that
these animals die in agony to provide th3 nation with meat, when
other Pouniries between 1874 and 1956 ha1Jeenaeted 1aws requiring
humane ~1h 3 and that We must not 1et opponents of humane
slaughter work behind the scenes to prevent these bills being
oassed.

It was a fu1l— page letter ar1d i trust that ever sending
these air mail did not reach ”asis ngton, too late, to do some
good.

I felt like never eating meat a3ain, looking at the
fe13P es and eye of the poor ani eels hanging to bleed to death.
i thought Whit did they do to deserve such an end; it is bad
enough that they have to die for us to eat their meat, without
going through torture first."

i work for the Union Pacif is Railroad here, and when I
read reports that I must write on of animals strangling themselves
in the cars, or due to overcrowding they suffocate; or are found
dead, probably from impacts at excessive speeds, I feel so sorry
for the animals, but it might be more merciful for than to die
enroute, than to await suohdebasing treatment at the slaughter»
houses.

1 hOpe your next communication will announce that the
House has passed compulsory humane slaughter leg’slation.

Very sincerely yours,

[3"
i”?°s/ “melia sohell CQML&Q,160£a%i

 




