THE NEW
‘ MORALITY.

An Inquiry into the Ethics of Anti-Vivisection.

 

BY.

L. LIND -AF- HAGEBY. ‘

 

THE ANIMAL DEFENCE AND ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETYQ
170, Piccadilly, London, W.

l 9 l l .
Price 3d.

ﬁrst, ”55‘ 5‘, 7’ .: . 5 ‘ .1
3335.} éai-y'..i.2:."'4., «Li . .k-i. ,
”MK f}! !‘ 3.5/411, ‘3: '. ' .. : ‘ ’ '\. ‘- \ Jr "
Mn gm: LANA} 1.11:2-4“ _ 1...:{m1‘ 1;. 32

Eermmw at mQLZ-émmﬂ

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE NEW MORALITY.

An Inquiry into the Ethics of Anti -Vivisection.

.. BY ..
L. LIND=AF=HAGEBY.

 

{moral Enthusiasts.

Moral enthusiasts are the salt of the earth.
Having felt the right or wrong of a principle or a
practice, they have little need of elaborate thinking
in order to establish the righteousness of their
opinions. Their perception of duty, of justice
towards fellow-creatures, of the necessity for active
kindness, is generally so far in advance of the views
of the majority of their own generation that they
are deemed fools and faddists by those to Whom
it is natural to offer resistance to the claims of
progressive morals.

Such enthusiasts initiated all great reforms. They
fought for their ideas against indifference, ridicule, and
opposition until, led by their force and pierced by
their light, mankind ripened into a general acceptance
of their message. And laws and creeds have changed,
and social systems and political tenets have thrown
oﬁ some of their selﬁshness because of this persistent

call for justice.

 




 

 

 

2

The heart of all life speaks through them, and
their words are ever hot with the suffering of
sympathy.

The anti-vivisection movement was born of such
moral enthusiasm. From the Royal Commission of
1875 to the Royal Commission of 1906 it has chieﬂy
drawn its strength from such sources. And it was
well nurtured by some of the greatest minds of the
past century. The poets, the artists, the thinkers
gave expression to their moral revolt against the
callousness of the scientiﬁc torture of animals. The
moral indignation of those who initiated the crusade
spread with rapidity, and has set up an organised
opposition which has placed the controversy among
the “burning questions ” of modern times.

And yetwand this is a tribute to the powers that
are of the heart—~the expansion of the anti-vivi—
section movement through every section of the
community is largely due to its appeal to the
emotions. The horror of “cutting into that which
is alive,” the pitiful and helpless state of the mangled
and diseased victims, the deliberate and calm
indifference to the inﬂiction of pain of the vivisector,
and the manifold and perfect apparatus and instru-
ments of. subjection and violation which ﬁll his
laboratory—these and many other mental pictures
associated with the work of the experimental
physiologist are apt to bring about an emotional
vortex which leaves little room for a calm ﬂow of
thought. Words of condemnation have been hurled
at the vivisector, souls have been ablaze with hatred
of. him, hostility has relegated him to a ﬁend, his
science to a mockery of all that is good. Even among
the foremost thinkers who have given their allegiance
to anti-vivisection there has been comparatively

 

*c‘aﬂ‘

 

 




 

 

 

3

little effort to penetrate into the depths of the defence
of viviseotion, or to seek a rational explanation of its
existence and its fallacies. The aesthete has turned
away with loathing, and the ethicist has often
thought it unnecessary and degrading to enter upon
any close investigation of what to him seemed to be
nothing but “the base utilitarian point of view.” ,

(the aontrovereg has Shifter) @rounb.

Meanwhile the controversy has slowly but surely
shifted ground. The vivisector, unable to resist the‘
moral persecution, has become “humane.” Ruth—
lessly dragged out from the beloved privacy of his
laboratory, and exposed to public criticism and scorn,
he has been forced to change his tactics of defence.
He no longer gives us the open and frank admissions
which characterised a Magendie, a Cyon, and many
others. “ It is easily understood,” wrote Claude
Bernard in 1879, “that the cries of animals
undergoing viviseotions in private houses upset
the neighbours,” . . . and “you will see that
the value of the laboratory does not least lie
in the fact that it shelters us from those who
are too sensitive.”* In 1874 Mr. David Ferrier,
delivering the introductory lecture at King’s College,
said: “ It is not my intention standing here to make
any apologia vivisection/is, or to reply to the numerous
attacks recently made on its advocates and prosecu-
tors, . . . but, on the other hand, we who are
regarded as offenders have strong reasons to feel
aggrieved at the practice of those who, professing to
have such delicate sensibilities, gratify their prurient

 

 

 

* “ Legons dc Physiologic Opératoirc,” 1879.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

4

propensities by prying into what was never intended
for their eyes or ears.”ale . . . Such utterances should
be contrasted with the latest forms of the apologm
vivisectz'on’is, as for instance that given in Professor
Halliburton’s Handbook of. Physiology (seventh
edition, 1905), where we learn that: “Many experi-
ments involve the use of living animals, but the
discovery of anmsthetics, which render such experi-
ments painless, has got rid of any objection to
experiments on the score of pain.”

The modern vivisector does not tell us in that
unabashed way that his work is not meant for our
“eyes or ears.” He is well aware of the existence
of societies for the protection of animals, and of. the
infectious nature of certain “rabid” sentiments
which are especially noxious to him. He therefore
paints “Anaesthetics” in large letters on the walls of
his laboratory, and in moments of extreme amiability
he may even invite the public to pay him a visit and
see a model vivisection. The anti-vivisectionist who
does not fully grasp the meaning of this changed
attitude, and who does not alter his tactics of attack
to suit the new situation, is bound to succeed badly,
and to prolong unnecessarily a struggle which can
have but one ultimate issue.

Blind to the signs of the times, some anti-vivi—
sectionists still use the methods which were effective
and necessary thirty years ago, but which at the
present time are of little value. They advise every-
body not to venture out upon the dangerous paths of
scientiﬁc thought, but “to stick to the moral side,”
and they reiterate with the deepest conviction that
their sole business is the objection to torture.

 

”' “ Rational Medicine,” by David Ferrier. M.D.. 1874.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

5

We can well imagine the following dialogue
between an up-to-date vivisector and an anti-Vivisec-
tionist of the type referred to :—»—

Anti—vivisectriom'st (with vehemence): I object to
torture, Sir. '

Vivisector (suavely): But there is no torture, my
dear Sir.

Anti-vivisectiondst : You practise diabolical cruelty
0n poor, dumb, defenceless animals.

Vivisecz‘or : All animals on which I experiment are
anaesthetised, and there can, therefore, be no question
of cruelty. I presume that you eat meat, and, there—
fore, can have no objection to the painless taking of
animal life ?

Anti-v’ivisectiomst: Of course I eat meat, but
killing an animal is not torturlng 1t.

Viv/13.930750? : I am not quite sure that the slaughter—
house is free from all cruelty, and before you condemn
my painless experiments I advise you to go and
carefully study all details connected with the pre-
paration of beef for your table.

A'nt/é-civ/ésectionist : I have no doubt that slaughter-
house reform is necessary, but I am still more con-
vinced of the necessity of prohibiting the prolonged
torture which you practise in the degraded name of
science.

Vicisector: I must point out to you again that
there can be no torture when the animals are
anaesthetised, i.6., for your purposes they are prac—
tically dead, yes, dead as far as sensation and
suffering of any kind go. Sometimes, very seldom,
they are allowed to regain consciousness after an

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6

operation, and are kept alive for purposes of observa-
tion, but the wounds are always aseptic, the healing
painless, and the animals seem very happy.

Alzti-Vivz'sectionist : But sometimes you inoculate
them with terrible diseases, and leave them to die
slowly in agony.

Vivisector : Allow me to explain to you that I
always see that my animals are killed if there should
be any signs of suffering, and that even if I did not,
that suﬁering would be insigniﬁcant compared with
that inﬂicted on animals for the Sake of pleasure and
convenience and in sport.

.A»-nti-Vivisectionist (irritated): Sport and vivisec-
tron cannot be compared ; one is killing, the other is
torture.

It is evident that if any satisfactory result is to
come out of such a discussion the opponents must
not stand on two sides of a gulf which hopelessly
divides their attempts to come to an understanding.
In order to prove the existence of torture, or the im-
possibility of painless vivisection, the anti-vivi~
sectionist must arm himself with" some science, just
as the vivisector has learnt to talk amateurish
humanitarian morality. It cannot, of course, be
denied that every anti-vivisectionist, who strives for
competency as an aid to the achievement of his
object, does avail himself, to some extent, of scientiﬁc
thought and experience—in spite of his protestations
to the contrary. His attempts to show cruelty
would otherwise be altogether futile, for in the
Vivisectional jugglery with the words “anaesthetic,”
“aseptic,” and “ reﬂex action” he would stand
utterly helpless were he not acquainted with the
rudiments of science, as well as with the dictates of

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

rt

 

 

 

7

common sense. Some knowledge of the process of
anaesthesia, of the pain following upon operations, of
the nature of diseases, of the sensibility and mental
life of animals is essential to‘ every anti-vivisectionist.

antieﬁcientiﬁc Bias.

“I know nothing of the scientiﬁc side of this
question and care less” is a lamentable statement
which, sometimes, is made on anti-vivisection plat-
forms. Such samples of intellectual laziness and
wilful ignorance of the real meaning of the anti-
vivisection movement might bring some justification
to the words of Huxley, who, in 1878, wrote of “the
anti-vivisection folk, for the most of whom I have a
hearty contempt.”* Feeling without knowledge is
ever apt to lead us astray, and every good cause must
suffer if its advocates prefer to remain uninstructed
in the very subjects which are within the immediate
circle of their desire for reform. The vivisection
question has with every year grown more complicated,
and the time is past when either side could dismiss it
with a few words of passionate disapproval on the one
hand and some phrases of arrogant scientiﬁc dogma-
tism on the other. It has become a life study,
entangled as it is with the many problems of the
ethics of our general treatment of animals, with the
Claims of physiology, medicine, and public health.
The attempts to give a false simplicity to the contro-
versy can only serve to estrange the most intellectual
and widely cultured from the anti-vivisection move—
ment. The word “ science” has come to be a bugbear

 

* “Life and Letters of Thomas Henry Huxley,” by his son, Leonard
Huxley. Vol. II., p. 236. 1903.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

8

to- some anti-vivisectionists, who forget that it is
always “a little knowledge” that is dangerous, and
that the diffusion of a wider knowledge and the growth
of true science can only hasten the abolition of
vivisection.

If the roots of the anti-vivisection movement are
to be found in the realms of the heart—from whence
springs all need of a fuller manifestation of altruism——
and its ﬂower and fruit in the harmonising of know-
ledge and love, through the forthbringing of a
humanity, intellectually sane and morally whole, then
the motives and aims of anti—vivisection should be
fully studied, fully discussed and fully developed. . ,

(the Science of EintMDivisection.

The anti-scientiﬁc, bias of some opponents of
animal experimentation is founded on a confusion of
the “base utilitarian argument” with the width of

view and logical system of reasons, which can only .

be attained by a thorough and scientiﬁc study of the
principles—moral and intellectual—which guide the
development of anti-vivisection. The moral, social,
and mental sciences are worthy of respectful attention
from the earnest anti-vivisectionist; ethical philosophy
and the history of the progress of morals should be
of actual interest to him. He should, above all, as
a friend of the animal world, be ready to listen to the
interpretation of nature, as given by the zoologist
and the animal psychologist. Whatever his faith as
to the ultimate and greater issues of life and death,
the evolution idea, which has revolutionised modern
science and penetrated into all its departments, can
but be his friend in demonstrating the physical and

 

 




‘
F

 

9

mental kinship of all that breathes upon this planet.
Why should he shut his ears to the tales of progress
of physics, chemistry, geology, astronomy, or to the
lessons of radio-activity and the latest views of
matter? Even the limit, the impotence of physical
science is replete with signs to him. Such studies
will reveal to him the coarseness of the vivisectional

' methods, and the constant advance of intellectual

criticism of scientiﬁc procedure will show him that
the day must come when science itself will, without
protest, discard a method of biological research which
destroys the very conditions which it professes to
interpret.

His aim is to make the quest of natural knowledge
conform to the growth of moral consciousness, and he
can only do this by being alike a student of morals
and of science. It is therefore not out of place to
speak cf the science of anti-vivisection, meaning
thereby the pursuit of knowledge which will
rationalise anti-vivisection.

(the Essential "(unity of the morale anb the
Ecience of Entiewivisection.

The intellectual criticism of vivisection—mthe
demonstration of its scientiﬁc perversity and practical
failures-“need not imply any disregard of the priority
cf the moral objection to the practice. “ That which
is morally wrong cannot be scientiﬁcally right ” is an
ethical aphorism often repeated by anti-vivisectionists,
though not always with adequate comprehension of
the profound beauty of this truth in a verbal nutshell.
For if a more philosophic recognition of its full

 




 

 

 

 

 

10

purport prevailed, there would be less misunderstand-
ing of the aims of. scientiﬁc anti-vivisection. The
equilibration of “sentiment” and “reason” is
accomplished through the realisation of the ﬁnal
unity of all our search for truth and all our aspiration
to goodness.

. four ﬁtagee.

It is possible to distinguish between four stages in
the development of every humane movement. First,
its rise in the mind of some ardent reformer, strong
in intuitive perception of the advance of morality,
then its spread among the masses, chieﬂy as the
result of an emotional reaction against the horrors of
the particular form of cruelty or injustice which is
being impugned, then a general thinking over the
reasons for and against the continuance of the
practice which intellectualises the contest, and
prepares compromises. Finally a common ethical
maturity is attained which needs no further argu—
ments, and which allows, as a matter of course,
legislative prevention, and the abolition of practices
formerly considered necessary and justiﬁable.

These stages cannot, perhaps, be recognised in any
absolute chronological order; they may all be present
simultaneously in different classes of the public mind,
and the individual adherents of the same “cause”
may show great dissimilarity, but they are the
general characteristics of the mental sequence in the
growth of such movements. The general tendencies
of anti-vivisection at the present moment show that

it is passing out of the third and into the fourth
stage.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

11

Che Sioeaﬂips of Emotional
Elntimivisection.

It should not be forgotten that we all partake of
the responsibility for every systematised evil in our
midst. Vivisection is no exception. The inﬂiction
‘of pain and the taking of innocent life in the
interests of science and medicine would not be
tolerated a day were the conscience of humanity fully
awake to the wrongs of such treatment of animals.
Vivisection to—day is exactly what the conscience of
the majority allows-neither more nor less—and
vivisection to-morrow will be what the conscience of
to—morrow demands. It is true that vivisection, like
so many other forms of abuse of power, thrives on
secrecy, and that a more close acquaintance with its
real nature would bring about an immediate demand
for more effective control and limitation, from which
even the moral laggards would not care to keep aloof;
but it is nevertheless an indisputable fact that the
system rests on principles which have excused almost
every form of tyranny and cruelty towards our
animal relations.

It is natural, and may be appropriate for every—
body meat—eaters, sportsmen, and representatives of
the innumerable kinds of animal exploitation which
ﬁll the world-to apply such words as “ﬁendish”
and “hellish” to the scientiﬁc pleasures of Mante-
gazza, who invented a special torture-machine, and
whose studies in the inﬂiction of vivisectional agony
were pursued 0cm molto amore e pazienza, but those
who seek efﬁciently to criticise the less glaring and
palpable cruelties of modern animal experimentation
should take care lest they do not themselves condone

 

énzquﬁ-smﬁtfnmes—mazrrarr." 1? ,_-—-.n _ gum/Ev“. '——v—:::- “.3.- ,1 -

E;
E
E
E:
E
E
E
E
E)
E

 




 

12

or practise cruelties quite comparable with those
which they condemn.

An emotional resentment of the horrors of vivi-
section does unfortunately not exclude the possibility
of calm contemplation of horrors of a different kind,
and nearer home. The temptations of the scientiﬁc
egoist are as real as those of the gourmet, or the
dainty lover of soft apparel of fur and feather. The
anti-vivisectiouist who spends his day in the covers,
giving pain and death to numbers of harmless, semi—
tame birds, and who afterwards dines on crammed
chicken and paté de fois gras, should not complain if
- his warm-hearted agitation against the inoculation of
mice draws forth smiles from the apologists of vivi-
section. The woman who attends anti-Vivisection
meetings wearing a sealskin jacket and an aigrette,
and who shudders at the very word “ vivisection,” is
another instance of the ease with which we criticise
others Whilst we leave ourselves alone.

(the Meet for consistency.

The attempt to be logical in the ethics and practice
of humaneness involves far too great an amount of
thought and self-denial to be universally popular.
Too great insistence on the necessity of being broadly
and unselﬁshly humane would also undoubtedly
frighten away large numbers of supporters of one or
other branch of the great humanitarian work, and
it is part of our nature and our frailty to need
individual perspective and division of labour in
everything. There is, besides, a vast difference
between the mere ignoring of or silent acquiescence
in some brutality and the direct perpetration of
cruelty. The former may be the outcome of

 

1...“

 

 

 




 

 

 

13

ignorancewill-timed and unbecoming in-the would-be
reformer of others—but the latter reduces an agita-
tion to mere pharisaical sentiment. Anti-vivisection-
ists are not as a rule supporters of blood-sports, and
we doubt the existence in our ranks of many admirers
of tame stag-hunting, trapped pigeon-shooting and
rabbit-coursing. The more “spurious” sports are
certainly disliked, but there is still far ,too little
appreciation of the crying need for consistency, and
the phenomenon sometimes occurs of an “ anti-” of
one kind or another who represents an admirable
standard of ethics with regard to his particular
object, whilst he may show himself possessed of
prehistoric morals in connection with other subjects.

The anti-vivisectionist who is not, at least in
mental attitude and intention, in sympathy with the
general rise of humane feeling and all its genuine
expressions, is a hypocrite. If he cannot be a
vegetarian, he must at least, in order to justify his
position, be whole-heartedly in favour of the abolition
of the present barbarities of the cattle trafﬁc and the
load of preventable animal suffering which disgraces
the private slaughter-house. . '

The anti‘vivisection question must rise or fall with
the general pressure of circulating humanitarianism.
Its strength is knowledge and harmony with the
whole trend of unfolding fellow-feeling, its weakness,
isolation, narrow sentimentalism, and ignorant abuse.
Huxley knew something of this weakness when he
placed his reliance on the stability of vivisection
principles, “not in the wisdom and justice of the
House of Commons, but in the large number of fox‘
hunters therein.”

 

* “ Life and Letters of Thomas Henry Huxley,” by his son, Leonard
Huxley. Vol. II.

. {

5%

‘3‘“ “5‘“- “"““i’8‘=§“i‘ ‘ ‘MWWﬂ—mﬁm‘wﬁemm~www, s,,v-y.i-.p,;_..« , .,

   

'3 W 'W‘Fimm ‘

.“ -W-WW‘

r
l
i
I:
l
1:,
P‘
f

l

a « .‘v—T-u—v e";




 

14
(the matter mien».

Humanitarianism, its rise and progress, presents,
in its varied aspects, a united and deeply signiﬁcant
whole to the comprehending eye of the sociologist.
The author of “Social Evolution” expresses his
view of this unity in the following way: “The
great wave of altruistic feeling which caused the
crusade against slavery to attain such remarkable
development amongst these peoples has progressed
onwards, carrying on its crest the multitude of
philanthropic and humanitarian undertakings which
are so characteristic a feature of all English-speaking
communities, and such little—understood movements
as anti-vivisection, vegetarianism, the eniranchise-
ment of women, the prevention of cruelty to animals,
and the abolition of State regulation of vice. It is
in these that we have the outward appearances
which mark the nature of the larger impetus which
amongst these peoples is behind that social and
political movement which has gradually enfranchised
andzuplifted the people, and which. is now steadily
tending to bring them all into the rivalry of life on
conditions of equality.”

The student oi the undercurrents of changes in
social opinion and morality can more easily gauge
the inner concord of outwardly divergent strivings
than the one who has plunged deeply into the
controversy of some special reform. In that fuller
light anti—vivisection becomes more than mere fond-
ness for animals, more than dislike of the hand and
the knife that combine to “ carve the living hound,”
more than a noble effort to avoid seeming beneﬁts
tainted with cruelty, more, than the wish for legal

 

 

*_,_“,_Social Evolution,” by Benjamin Kidd, page 303. 1898.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

15

restraint of experiments or the preferential exemption
of certain species, more than the belief in the saving
powers of anaesthetics, much more than can at
present be discerned in the whole crusade for the
abolition of vivisection. It becomes a stepping-stone
to the new morality—a morality which consciously
or unconsciously is coveted in all efforts to help the
down-trodden and suffering, whether these are human
or animal.

Anti-vivisection is a great humanitarian educator
It brings the meanness, the hardness, the barbarity
with which we treat the animals in our power to a
sharp point which hurts the sensitive, arouses the
sleeping, incommodes the selﬁsh. In its passage
through humanity it is apt, at a certain stage, to be
nourished by insufficiently balanced emotions, but on
its upward path it tends to instruct and to widen.
Pity will fade with the growth of a new and all-
embracing sense of justice between man and man,
and man and beast, which will herald a new age of
altruism, the product of our suffering, our dreams of
beauty, and our most spiritual desires.

 

l5
5
4;,
is

r}, z

'2 "f J'lll‘iﬁ‘ﬁms at 2'. 1.“. a:

?v'.n.*<fn

‘. ‘ 1’3‘

"‘1

 




 

 

 

:: Printed by t: ::
ST. CLEMENTS PRESS, LTD,

Newspaper Buildings -

Portugal Street

Kingsway - London . W.C.

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-9::

 

 

 

 

 




 

The Animal Defence and

Anti -Vivisection Society.

 

 

'7?

President. 7
THE PRINCESS MARIE LOUISE DE BOURBON.
,Duchess of Seville. '

Executive Council.

 

 

 

 

Mrs. HARFORD ADLAM.

The BARONESS BARNEKOW.

Lady BLOMFIELD.

J. BURNS-GIBSON, Esq., M.A.. M.D.
Col. Sm FREDERICK CARDEW, K.C.M.G.
Miss DELIUS.

Mrs. DESPARD.

Mrs. PLATON DRAKOULES.

Miss FAULKNER.

The Hon. Mrs. FORBES.

Miss C. V. HALL.

Hon. General Secretary.
Miss LIND-AF-HAGEBY.

 

The PRINCESS KARADJA.

Mrs. TROMAS LOUGH.

Mrs. LUTYENS.

Mrs. ROBERT MILLER.

Lady ONSLOW.

Miss SCHAR'IAU.

Mrs. SMITH-WARD.

WILLIAM TEBB, Esq”. F.R.G.S.
Miss THORNHILL. ,

May-Gen. SIR ALFRED TURNER. K.C.B.
HOWARD WILLIAMS, Esq.. M.A.

Hon. Organising Secretary.

Miss M. DAMER DAWSON. ‘

‘Bureau-17o, PICCADILLY, LONDON, w.
(First Floor, facing Bond Street.)

Telephone: 9845 Gerrard.

Telegrams : “ Lindelius, London."

Bankers-11": London City and Midland Bank. 36, Old Bond Street, W.

 

OBJECTS :

Abolition of Vivisection and a Consistent
Opposition to all Forms of Cruelty to
Animals.

 

Member's Annual Subscription , , , £

Life Membership ,

Associate's“ Annual Subscription , , ,

0100
,,,,500
026

 

FUNDS URGENTLY NEEDED ‘FOB TIIE SOCIETY’S CAMPAIGN.

Cheques should be made payable to the Animal Defence and Anti- Vivisrction Society.

 

 




 




