 

MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION
‘& MATERIALS ORDER FORM

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

 

I wish to become a non-voting [:1 $100 to $500 Patron

member of the El $25 to $100 Supporter
Animal Welfare Institute: C] $15 Regular

Cl $5 Student or Senior Citizen
(Subscription to Quarterly Information Report included)

ADDRESS ...........................................

.............................. ZIPCODE
INSTITUTION (if any) ................................

Please send me the items checked for which I enclose $. . . .
Payment Must Accompany Order

Please use the form below for SAVE THE WHALES campaign

orders.

ZIP CODE
CONTRIBUTION $ ...................................

 

SAVE THE WHALES
CAMPAIGN MATERIALS

 

SAVE THE WHALES ﬂier explaining how you can help .Free

Whales vs. Whalers: A Continuing Commentary
Articles published from 1971 to 1981 in the AWI
Information Report on national and international
efforts to prevent extinction of whales ........... $3.00

Outlaw Whalers by Greenpeace International
1980, 32 pages
1981, 24 pages

The Great Whales
16 mm, sound, color, 1 hour, National Geographic
Society. One week rental ...................... $10.00
$50.00 refundable deposit required.

Last Day of the Dolphins?
Dick Cavett narrates this film containing footage
obtained after a court fight with tuna interests showing
the tragic killing of dolphins in tuna purse seines.
16mm, color, sound, 27 minutes. One week rental . . $10.00
$50.00 refundable deposit required.

Vanishing Giants
the history, biology, and fate of the Great Whales. 24

How to Liven Up Your Classroom with a Pod of Whales
for teachers, 2 pages ........................... Free

A Whale of a Friend
an ocean giant and man play together in a historic
happening. 4 pages. Reprint from Toronto Star . . . .

A Letter from a Whale
by Anthony Sandonato. For primary grades. Animal
Welfare Insitute, 1977. 4 pages .................. Free

Humpbacks—The Gentle Whales
January, 1979 issue of “The National Geographic” in
which a special sound sheet recording, “Songs of the

Humpback Whale” with commentary by Roger Payne,
PhD. appears ................................ $1.50

Campaign Materials:
How to organize a demonstration to save the whales. . Free
Poster, one free. Extras ...................... 20¢ ea.
Bumper Sticker, one free. Extras .............. 20¢ ea.
T-shirts. Adult small, medium, large or x-large $6.00
Children’s medium or large .................. $5.00

Six-color print, measuring 20” x 26", from original paintings by
Richard Ellis of a mother Humpback whale and her calf, or of
two majestic cachalot whales. Suitable for framing, one print is
available to anyone donating $15 or more to the Animal Welfare
Institute’s SAVE THE WHALES campaign.

 

DR. SCHWEITZER’S MESSAGE TO
THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

i

I am profoundly moved that you would like to give my name
to the medal you have created. I give you this right with all
my heart. I would never have believed that my philosophy,
which incorporates in our ethics a compassionate attitude
toward all creatures, would be noticed and recognized in my
lifetime. I knew this truth would impose itself one day on human
thought, but it is the great and moving surprise of my life that
I should still be able to witness this progress of ethics.

Your medal celebrates this progress: philosophy obliged to
intervene for animals when up till now it has shown so little
interest in them.

Lambare/ne’
, May 2, 1951

BROCHURE & SYMBOL DESIGN:
CACHALOT DESIGN GROUP, MARBLEHEAD, MASSACHUSETTS

 

PUBLICATIONS
AND FILMS

AVAILABLE FROM THE

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007

 

/\

 

 

 

 

 

/
\/

 




 

HUMANE EDUCATION

 

General Interest

Information Report
Animal Welfare Institute quarterly: endangered
species, trapping, farming and laboratory animals
One year subscription ........................ $15.00

Animals and Their Legal Rights
by Emily Leavitt and other authors. Summary and his-
tory of laws affecting the welfare of animals in the Uni-
ted States. Animal Welfare Institute. Third edition,
1978. 215 pages. One copy free upon request to libra-
ries and humane societies. To others ............ $4.00

Animal Expressions
a photographic footnote to Charles Darwin’s Expres-
sions of the Emotions in Man and Animals. Foreword
by F.J. Mulhern, D.V.M. 54 pages. 106 illustrations.
Animal Welfare Institute ....................... $2 .00

Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer
edited by Ann Cottrell Free. In press. Dr. Schweitzer’s
philosophy of reverence for life through his own
words ....................................... $2.50

The Neighbours
anthology of animal poems, illustrated by Fougasse,
117 pages. Published by UFAW ................ $4.00

The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion
by Major C.W. Hume, M.C., B.Sc., London, illus-
trated by Fougasse. 100 pages. UFAW .......... $4.00

Dognapping
by Mary Warner. Study on the spread of dognapping. $2.00

The Schweitzer Medalists
presented annually for an outstanding contribution to
animal welfare, from 1955 to 1981 ................ Free

Towards the Ideal in an Animal Shelter ............. Free

Wildlife

First Aid and Care of Small Animals
by Ernest P. Walker. Designed for use by teachers in
primary and secondary schools. One copy free upon
request to teachers, librarians, humane societies and
scout leaders. To others . . . . . . . ................ $3.00

The Bird Business: A Study of the Commercial Cage
Bird Trade, by Greta Nilsson. Foreword by S. Dillion
Ripley. Animal Welfare Institute, 1981. 121 pages, illus-
trated in black and white and color

Endangered Species Handbook
In press. One copy free to teachers. To others . . .

Wildlife, continued

International Trade in Wildlife
by Tim Inskipp and Sue Wells. Published by Earth-
scan. London, 1979. 104 pages. ................. $3.00

Rare and Endangered Birds (108 pages) ............ Free

Endangered, Threatened and Unique Mammals of the
Southern National Forests (121 pages)
Forest Service, US. Department of Agriculture.
One copy of each free on request to teachers.

Mexico: The Turtles are Gathering for Their Nesting
Season Massacre
reprinted from the Bulletin of the International
Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources .................................... Free

The Shame of Escobilla
by Tim Cahill. Reprinted from Outside; 10 pages. An
eyewitness account of the mass killing of sea turtles in
Mexico ....................................... Free

Federal Measures Against the Abuse of Wild Animals
by Nathaniel Reed, Assistant Secretary, U.S. Depart-

ment of the Interior. Reprint from The American Bio-
logy Teacher, April 1974 ........................ Free

Help for Hooked Birds
by Ralph Heath, Jr., Pete Van Allen and Dr. Harold
Albers, pamphlet, 1981 ......................... Free

Trapping

Facts About Furs
by Greta Nilsson and other authors. Revised edition,
Animal Welfare Institute, 1980. 257 pages of infor-
mation on the way furs are obtained throughout the
world. 79 illustrations; 18 appendices. One copy free
to humane societies and libraries. To others

Let Us Live
leaflet on trapping, illustrated in full color ......... Free

Canada’s Shame
film produced by the Association for the Protection of
Fur—Bearing Animals showing the exteme suffering
undergone by animals caught in leghold traps, 16 mm,
color, sound, 15 minutes. One week rental ...... $10.00
$50.00 refundable deposit required.

Factory Farming

Down on the Factory Farm
film produced by the BBC which examines the strict confine-
ment housing of farm animals, the resulting behavioral
problems and alternative housing systems; 16mm, color,
sound, 50 minutes. One week rental
$50.00 refundable deposit required.

Attitudes Toward Animals:

for primary grades

Good Kind Lion
Illustrated by Fougasse, for primary grades. 4 pages,
UFAW. One copy ............................. Free
Additional copies .......................... 20¢ each

Kittens and Cats
for primary grades. 12 pages, with pictures suitable for
coloring. Humane Society of Huron Valley. One copy
free on request to teachers, librarians, humane socie-
ties. To others & additional copies ................ 20¢

You and Your Dog
for primary grades. 16 pages, with pictures suitable for
coloring. Humane Society of Huron Valley. One copy
free upon request to teachers, librarians, humane so-
cieties. To others & additional copies ............. 20¢

Befriending Animals
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Child-
hood Education. For primary grades, 4 pages ..... Free

for secondary grades

Regulations for Animal Experimentation in Science Fairs
new humane rules for Canadian Science Fairs, 1975 Free

Better Nutrition Studies
by Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint from The American
Biology Teacher, 3 pages, November 1970 ........

Live Organisms in High School Biology
by Barbara F. Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article from
The American Biology Teacher, 4 pages, September

1972 ......................................... Free

Attitudes Towards Animals
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The
American Biology Teacher, 3 pages, February 1970 Free

Sanctified Torture
by John Hillaby. Reprint of article from New Scientist,
1 page, January 1969 ........................... Free

Biology Students as Experimental Subjects
by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article from
The American Biology Teacher, October 1974

Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools
by Dr. W.W. Armistead, Vice President for Agri-
culture, Institute for Agriculture, University of
Tennessee, 1 page ............................. Free

NOTE: Teachers please indicate grade level.

We regret that only reprints and leaflets can be provided free
to student teachers. Orders for manuals should be accompan-

ied by payment. (Order blank on reverse side)

 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

 

Laboratory Dogs
16 mm. sound film showing humane care and housing
of dogs in an experimental surgery laboratory. Pro-
duced by Crawley Films. One week rental ...... $10.00
$50.00 refundable deposit required.

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals
illustrated manual designed for those planning to
build, remodel or re-equip animal quarters. Animal
Welfare Institute. Revised edition, 1979. 108 pages,
165 illustrations. One copy free on request to scientific
institutions, veterinarians, or architects. To others $3.00

Modular Kennels for Laboratory Animals

by William Hoffer. Reprint from College Management,
2 pages, May 1973 ............................. Free

The Principles of HUmane Experimental Technique
by W.M.S. Russell & R.L. Burch, 238 pages ...... $5.00

Alternatives to Pain in Experiments on Animals
by Dallas Pratt, M.D., Argus Archives, 1980, 283
pages ....................................... $4.95

Animal Expressions
a photographic footnote to Charles Darwin’s Expres-
sion of the Emotions in Man and Animals. Foreword
by F.J. Mulhern, D.V.M. 54 pages. 106 illustrations.
Animal Welfare Institute. Free on request to veterinar-
ians and persons employed by research institutions in
the management and care of animals.

Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals
A Review of Scientific Literature from 1975-1978 by
Jeff Diner with a foreword by Samuel Peacock, M.D.
Animal Welfare Institute. 1979. 195 pages ........ $4.00

Beyond Adequate Veterinary Care

address at American Veterinary Medical Association
Convention, 1975, by Dr. Majorie Anchel ......... Free

Humane Consideration for Animal Models
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Animal
Models of Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic Diseases.
National Academy of Sciences, 1976, 8 pages ..... Free

Humane Perspectives
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The F u-
ture of Animals, Cells, Models, and Systems in Re-
search, Development, Education and Testing. Nation-
al Academy of Sciences, 1977. 9 pages ........... Free

Cuidado Basico de los Animales Experimentales
fourth edition in Spanish, written simply, designed for
animal room personnel, 78 pages. Illustrated. Free
upon request only to persons employed in scientific
institutions.

 




AN INVENTION IS NEEDED

Can You Help to Save the Dolphins?

An estimated 250,000-900,000 dolphins and porpoises are drowned

each year in the huge purse seines used to catch tuna fish. Tuna
and dolphins swim together. Tuna fishermen watch for dolphins
playing at the surface of the water, then head for them in order to
catch the tuna. Sometimes as many as 1,000 dolphins die in a single
"set" of the purse seine.

THE QUESTION

How can the dolphins be separated from the tuna and released from
the purse seines?

Ways which have been tried and which are partially successful:

 

l) Backing down. The tuna boat backs down after capturing the
tuna and dolphins in the purse seines, making it possible for the
dolphins to leap over the top of the net. However, many dolphins
refuse to leave others of their kind especially if one has been in-
jured.

2) The Medina net. This net has finer mesh than the regular
net whose h” openings naturally catch the "bottle noses" of the dol-
phins, holding them under water so that they cannot reach the surface
to breathe, and so drown. Fewer dolphins are drowned when this re-
cently developed net is used, but many still are drowned.

3) Some tests have been run using the sound of the killer whale
which frightens dolphins. These tests are not yet conclusive.

h) A "gate” which opens in the net has been tried. These tests,
too, have not come to a conclusion.

CAN YOU THINK OF A WAY WHICH SHOULD BE TRIED TO SAVE THE DOLPHINS?
Here are some things to keep in mind:

1) Dolphins breathe air. They must come to the surface of the
sea regularly in order to avoid drowning. Tuna are fish. They breathe
with gills in the water. They cannot breathe air. They never come to
the surface to breathe.

2) Tuna swim with dolphins and porpoises. They also congregate
under flotsam.

3) Bolphins are intelligent and affectionate mammals. One stu—
dent of their behavior has recorded as many as 1,000 different vocali-
zations to communicate with one another.

 




 

h) The U.S. Navy has trained dolphins to respond to commands
while free in the ocean and perfectly capable of swimming away and
never returning. 4?

5) Dolphins are deeply concerned whenever another cetacean is
in trouble. They seek to buoy him up to prevent him from drowning.

6) Since ancient times, fhdividual dolphins have become friendly
with individual human beings and have returned repeatedly to associate
with them in play. They cooperated with the fishermen of ancient
Greece and Rome who rewardedxthe dolphins for their assistance in
catching fish. According to Pliny, the Elder, the reward favored by
dolphins was bread soaked in wine.

7) It will be necessary to think in different categories than
those so far examined in order to find a successful way of capturing
tuna without harming dolphins.

8) Traditional "long—line" fishing for tuna did not harm the
dolphins. This method is less ”efficient," requiring more human effort
to land the tuna; however, the total population of the tuna school was
not destroyed by this method as it is by the purse seine, developed
through the use of funds provided the tuna fleet by the old Bureau of
Commercial Fisheries, now supplanted by the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration (NOAAA) of the Department of Commerce.

SEND YOUR SUGGESTIONS TO THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

The best ideas will be published in the quarterly Information
Report of the Animal Welfare Institute and submitted to the federal
government and industry for investigation. Be sure to give your name
and address.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. BOX 3492
GRAND CENTRAL STATION
NEW YORK. NY. IO0I7

 

 




‘\\i<:m ' 3

;K\\\‘
at». -

‘\
"\-
_\

‘ “a
at§u£§ ‘

AND RUSSIAN PRODUCT
CARS, MOTORCYCLES, TELEVISIONS, STEREOS, CAMERAS

 

N’T FLY JAPAN AIR LINES
.. PONTBUYRUSSIAN WINE AND VODKA

Every 17 minutes another whale dies, its back broken open by a grenade—tipped harpoon. These gentle marine mammals suf-
fer a prolonged, agonizing death.

The great whales are being ruthlessly slaughtered for such things as mink food, fertilizer, margarine, cosmetics and lubricating
oil. There are cheap, plentiful substitute sources for all these products, but the killing continues.

The whaling fleets of Japan and the Soviet Union are searching the farthest corners of the seven seas to harpoon the last of the
great whales. With military precision, the whalers use sonar, airplanes, helicopters and high-speed catcher boats to chase down
terror~stricken whales.

Most species of whales have been driven to the brink of extinction.

The mighty blue whale, the largest creature to live on earth (100 feet long and weighing 130 tons), survives in such few numbers
that it may be past the point of saving.

ln one year alone, more than 30,000 blue whales were slaughtered. Japan only agreed to stop the slaughter after its fleets
could not find a single blue whale to kill.

Whales are extremely intelligent. Their brains are larger and more complex than man’s. With their beautiful “songs," they com-
municate with each other across hundreds of miles of seas.

More than 2,000,000 of these magnificent animals have been killed by the whalers in the past 50 years.

The whaling industry is dying; the whales are nearly gone. Japan’s kill this year is less than 3% of its peak catch in 1964. The
fleets are losing millions of dollars.

Yet, to provide employment for a few more years, the Japanese and Soviets are driving the last of the whales to commercial
extinction, one short step from biological extinction. The two whaling nations are now considering combining their whaling fleets
to cut costs and prolong the deadly hunt. .

In 1972, 1973 and 1974, the United Nations unanimously called for a ten-year moratorium on commercial whaling. President
Carter has called for an end to the killing; The whaling nations. have-ignored these appeals.

Japan even subverts the. meager whale conservation measures of the International Whaling Commission (lWC), which yearly
sets quotas on most whale killing. Japanese whalers own or support unregulated whaling operations in six countries that are not
members of the lWC. '

These outlaw whaling nations (Peru, Chile, South Korea, North Korea, Spain and Somalia) kill more than 3,500 highly endan-
gered whales each year. The meat is shipped to Japan. .

The lWC adopted a resolution at its 1977 meeting calling for member nations to prevent the importation of whale products from
non-lWC whalers/But Japan has failed to halt its trafficking in the illicit whale meat.

Whales live in international waters and therefore are the common interest of all mankind. Japan and the Soviet Union have
repeatedly rejected the international appeals for an end to the slaughter. . .

In response to this outrageous defiance, major American conservation, environmental and animal welfare groups have Jorned
to call for a boycott of Japanese and Soviet products. The whaling com anies are owned and controlled by the great manufactur-
ing and trading companies that produce and market the vast array of apanese goods sold in America. The Kremlin controls the
Soviet whalers.

The more than four million members of these groups urge you to join the boycott campaign to save the great whales from
extinction.

THE BOYCOTT CAMPAIGN IS SUPPORTED BY THESE CONSERVATION GROUPS:

The New York Zoological Society National Wildlife Federation Sierra Club .
Friends Of the Earth The Fund for Animals Society for Animal Protective
Environmental Defense Fund The Wilderness Society Legislation

Humane Society Of the United States Oceanic Society lzaak Walton League
National Parks and Conservation Assoc. Rare Animal Relief Effort Whale Protection Fund
Center for Science in the Public interest Environmental Action Envrronmental Policy Center

Explorers Club Environment Committee Defenders of Wildlife Animal Welfare Institute
* ‘—

 

 

 




The fate of the great whales was foreseen more than a century ago by Herman ‘Mélville. The author of thewhaling classic “Moby
Dick” wrote:r“The moot point is, whether Leviathan can long endure so wide a chase, and so remors‘eless‘a havoc; ‘wheth’efr'hie
must not at last be exterminated from the waters, and the last whale, like the last man; smoke his-iv'last pipe, and‘thenj'himself
evaporate in the final puff.” ' , . ' .. ~ ' 1 1 " 7 ~ ' ,

Jacques Cousteau, the famed French oceanographer, writes: “Our century, as it; turned out, Was'mUCh more oatmerwe to , -
the whales than the period of the great romantic hunts as'described in the work of Herman Melville. .A. hundred. years'ago, a
whaler’s three-year expedition netted him 37 whales. Today, a whaler"s modern weapons and fast boats give him one'wh'ra'l'e a -
day, and sometimes three or four. - - ‘ ‘ 7 ’ .. . ' '

“The only creatures on earth that have bigger—and maybe better—brains than humans are the Cetacea, the whales and
dolphins. Perhaps they could one day tell us something important, but it is unlikely that we Will hear it. Because we are Coldly,
efficiently and economically killing them off.” ‘ ~ ‘ ‘

Modern whaling is a savage, ruthless exercise, nothing like the romantic days of 19th—century whaling. Here is an eyeWitness
description of modern whaling by Dr. Harry Lillie, who sailed as a ship’s surgeon: “The present-day hunting harpoon is a horrible
150-pound weapon carrying an explosive head which bursts generally in the whale’s intestines, and the sight of one of these
creatures pouring blood and gasping along on the surface, towing a 400-ton catching vessel by a heavy harpoon rope, is pitiful.
So often an hour or more of torture is inflicted before the agony ends in death. I have experienced a case of five hours and nine
harpoons needed to kill one mother Blue Whale. 7

“If we could imagine a horse having two or three explosive spears driven into it, and then made to drag a heavy butcher’s
truck, while blood poured over the roadway until the animal collapsed an hour or more later, we should have some idea of what

a whale goes through.”
THE WHALESNEED YOUR HELP

Please support the boycott. If a product says MADE IN JAPAN or MADE IN U.S.S.R., don’t buy it. Purchase goods made else.-
where. Tell merchants WHY you are boycotting Japanese and Russian products and urge them to stock goods made in other
countries.

Tell your friends about the plight of the whales and how they can help. The more people who act NOW, the sooner we can halt
the slaughter that is driving the great whales to extinction. The fate of the great whales must be decided by mankind, not by a greedy
few. Extinction is the ultimate crime against Nature.

WRITE TO THE LEADERS OF JAPAN AND THE SOVIET UNION AND URGE THEM TO END COMMERCIAL WHALING
BY THEIR COUNTRIES. THEIR ADDRESSES ARE:

Prime Minister Takeo Fukuda, Embassy of Japan, General Secretary Leonid Brezhnev, Embassy of U.S.S.R.,
2520 Massachusetts Ave NW, Washington, DC. 20008 “25 16th St- NW, Washington, DC. 20035

Please write to the presidents of big Japanese companies telling them why you are boycotting their goods.
Urge them to use their influence on their country’s whaling industry to stop whale killing. Following are some names
and addresses:

Automobiles Cameras Travel Motorcycles 6 Bicycles TV Er Stereos

TOYOTA CANON JAPAN AIR LINES HONDA SONY

2055 W. 190th St. 10 Nevada Drive 655 Fifth Ave. 100 W. Alondra Blvd. 9 West 57th St.

Torrance, Cal. 90504 Lake Success, N.Y.IOO4O New York, NY. 10022 Gardena, Cal. 90247 New York, NY 10019

DATSUN NIKON JAPAN TOURIST OFFICE YAMAHA HITACHI

18501 S. Figueroa St. Nippon Kogaku 45 Rockefeller Plaza 6600 Orangethor e 437 Madison Ave.

Carson, Cal. 90744 623 Stewart Ave. New York, NY. 10020 Buena Park, Cal. 0602 New York, NY. 10022

MAZDA MOTORS Girde“ C‘ty' ”-Y- “530 Liquor KAWASAKI PANASONIC

60 New England Ave. M.NOLTA _ , 1062 McGaw Ave. Panasonic Way

Piscataway, NJ_ 08854 101 Williams Drive SUNTORY INT L ‘ lrvme, Cal. 92705 Secaucus NJ 07094
Ramsey, NJ. 07446 551 Fifth Ave. SUZUKI ’ .- .... ., .~ .. .

SUBARU New York NY. 10017 SANYO

7040 Central Highway PENTAX ’ 13767 F reewayDr- 1200 w. Artesia Blvd.

Industrial Park Honeywell, Inc. Food Sante Fe Springs, Cal. 90670 Compton, Cal. 90220

Airport Circle 5501 S. Broadway FUJI BICYCLES mower-:12

Pennsauken, NJ. 08110 Littleton, COIO- 80I20 EggrgrﬂESOODs Toshoku America, Inc. 75 Oxford Drive

- - 551 Fifth Ave. . Moonachie, NJ 07074
Tires (5:133:33 Sig gfgr‘IA/Cincgsgslegll 1 34 New York, NY. 10017
Egaggaliﬁggggt 540 Madison Ave. oE1SHA BRAND watehes
Torrance Cal 90504 New York, NY 10022 Nozaki Associates, Inc. SEIKO
’ ‘ (Distributor) 640 Fifth Ave.
1 World Trade Center ‘ New York, NY
NewYork, NY. 10048 10019

Please write to these distributors of Russian products and tell them why you are boycotting their goods. Urge them to bring
an end to whaling in the Soviet Union. Some names and addresses are:

STOLICHNAYA VODKA and LADA AUTOMOBILES BELORUSSE TRACTORS AEROFLOT AIRLINE BAIKAL and M; SHOTGUNS
NAZDOROVYA CHAMPAGNE Satra Motors 7075 West Parkland Ct. 545 Fifth Ave. Universal 5 orting Goods
Pepsi-Cola 475 Park Ave. Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53223 New York, NY 10017 7920 NW 7 . th Ave.
Anderson Hill Rd. New York, NY 10016 M1am1,FIor1da

Purchase, NY 10577

You can help save the whales and publicize the boycott campaign by making a TAX-DEDUCTIBLE CONTRIBU—
TION to the Save The Whales Campaign. If you believe in this effort, please give generously.

For a donation of $15.00 or more, you will receive a print of the stunning scene (shown on the opposite side of this fly.er,
though without the lettering) of a mother Humpback whale and her calf. Richard Ellis, the world’s foremost marine lifeartlst,
painted this after swimming with the Humpbacks off Hawaii. This is a six—color print measuring 20” x 26’ , printed on fine art
paper, and ready for framing.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007 Christine Stevens, President-
r———_IF THIS ORDER IS URGENT, PLEASE ADD $1.00 FOR PRIORITY MAIL, POSTAGE AND HANDLING._______' ,

1 WANT To HELP SAVE THE WHALES. PLEASE SEND ME: _ rm... u-s-A-

______Copies of this leaflet _.___._ Petitions “SAVE THE WHALES" T-shirts
______Bumper stickers (One free, extras 20¢) ' _______Adult’s T—shirts ($6.00 each)
()Sm ( )Med ‘( )LQ ( )XLQ

Children’s T-shirts ($5.00 each)

I

I

I

I

I

Posters (One free, extras 20¢) |
.__________“Humpback Whales” print ($15 minimum donation) ( ) Med ( ) Lg I
I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

Enclosed please find $_________to help SAVE THE WHALES and $_____.;_for my order.
Make check payable to: ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE (D.C. residents add 5% sales tax)

Name (please print)
Address -
City State Zip

A copy of the Animal Welfare Institute’s latest annual report, filed with the New York State Board of. Social
, 'Welfare is available upon written request to the Institute at the address on the masthead, Otto the New

Yor’letateBoard of Sodal Welfare-Office:Tower,EmpireState Plaza, Albany, NY 12223 1‘ «I

 

 

 

 

1' '..>~J..:V.\
_. u H. r.
.4 . ‘ , s. I'd!» ~—. - .I
r ,v .' ,, .’ _ I ‘~ ' ’1 . g. . 5 I"; ‘. r‘
. *' q.- . ,u ., , '1 “52.5, .1495": .
. . r‘,‘ . -_;._('. g‘k!‘ 2 e», 1 f_
J .4 . . . ., a, .a

a.»

 




Zea/AW EMS-

?R‘NTED
IN
U. s, A.

 




UPDATED SUGGESTION December 1, 1978

It would be especially he] pful at this time to send an airmail
latter directly to Norway's Minister of Environment:

Mrs. Gro Harlem Brundtland
Minister of Environment
Post Box 8013 DEP

Oslo 1, Norway

Mrs. Brundtland is sincerely concerned about wildlife and the
environment, and it is important that she know of the great desire
throughout the world that Norway should take a leading role in pro-
tecting the vanishing whales. Our last circular letter gives the
necessary background information. Respectful, supportive letters
to the Minister are vitally important now. An airletter may be
purchased at the Post Office for 22¢, or 71¢ worth of stamps may be
affixed to an ordinary envelope. This effort is worthwhile in the
battle to save the whales. Thanks for your help!

 




JV

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

 

Dear Friend of Whales: 9/28/78

The next meeting of the International Whaling Commission is sche-
duled for Tokyo in December. No doubt the politically powerful All
Japan Seamen's Union will be out in force to demand that the Commission-
ers vote high quotas allowing more whales to be killed. At last year's
IWC meeting in Tokyo, hundreds of union picketers carrying signs in
favor of whaling, stood or marched outside the Foreign Ministry while
the meeting was going on, frequently shouting in unison. Although there
are less than 800 seamen still employed on the whaling ships, and though
each worker who loses his job in Japan receives a substantial subsidy,
still this big union irresponsibly urges more whale killing - killing
that inevitably will eliminate the very jobs it claims to want to save.

To try to combat this situation, a friend of the AWI has made a
suggestion that we believe you will want to support. That is, to con-
tribute money for the express purpose of changing the employment of these
last few whalers and training them for other more humane and ecologi-
cally sound means of making a living. If each person who receives this
letter would mail a dollar bill to the Prime Minister of Japan with a
request that it be used for this purpose, a substantial amount of money
would be available. Those persons who have a vested interest in killing
whales would be non-plussed, while the many Japanese who would like to
stop whaling (as indicated by a recent survey) would be solidly backed
up by this demonstration of our good faith in the struggle to save the
whales from extinction.

Please send your dollar, to help Japanese whaling crews learn other
trades, to Prime Minister Fukuda. Tell him what you want the money to
be used for and why it is so urgent that commercial whaling end. Please
write your own letter, or if you are too pressed for time, clip off the
coupon at the end of page three and mail it with your dollar to the

Prime Minister.
Following is background information you can use in writing.

The save-the-whales campaign has forced the Japanese whaling indus-
try into virtual bankruptcy by steady quota reductions from 1973 to 1977.
Once Japan had seven whaling fleets scouring the oceans in search of
the ten species of great whales. Last spring, they were forced to scrap
two of their last three fleets. Once there were more than 10,000 work-

 

 




 

-2-

w. 4‘,
ers in the Japanese fleets; today, fewer than 800 remain. Japan's catch
of whale meat this year is less than 3% of the peak tonnage 1n 1964.

Now, Japan's last whaling fleet survives only with a $10 million
annual subsidy from the Japanese government. That is more than $12,000
per worker! The money would be better spent training the workers for
other skills.

While the Japanese whaling industry disintegrates, the Japanese
whalers are insidiously expanding outlaw whaling operations around the
world. These unregulated whaling stations and pirate ships now kill more
than 5,000 whales, most from highly-endangered stocks and many from "pro-
tected" species.

For example, the Japanese whalers last year exported a modern stern
trawler fishing boat to Chile, where it was converted to a combination
factory/catcher boat. It was renamed the Palmy Star 111 and given a
permit by the Chilean government to take 500 whales per year. According
to the Chilean government, the boat is being leased by Japanese interests
to a Chilean company that has close ties to Japan's giant Taiyo Fishery
Co. The whale meat is shipped to Japan.

The transfer of the ship to a non-IWC country and the purchase of
whale products from an unregulated whaler is in violation of two resolu-
tions adOpted by the IWC in 1977.

The Japanese whaling company Nippon Hogei owns the whaling station
on the north coast of Peru, another non-IWC nation. There, 1800 whales
are killed annually, including the rare blue whale, reports famed con-
servationist Felipe Benavides. The whale meat is shipped to Japan.

Japanese whaling interests support the whaling stations on the
north coast of Spain, where hundreds of whales die each year, including
blue and humpback whales. Japanese meat merchants oversee the butcher-
ing so that only the best cuts of meat are sent home to Japan. Japan
also buys most of the whale meat from the South Korean whaling stations
that kill more than 1000 whales outside any regulation.

For years, the notorious pirate whaling ship Sierra has roamed the
South Atlantic off the African coast, slaughtering thousands of whales
in an area totally off limits to IWC whalers. Entire herds of whales,
including nursing mothers and babies, are wiped out. Japanese on board
direct the butchering.

Earlier this year, the Sierra moved its base of Operations to the
Canary Islands, off the coast of North Africa. A second rogue whaling
ship, the Tonna, joined the Sierra to increase their massacre of whales
to 80 per month. The Tonna was another former Japanese boat, the Shun-
yo Maru.

The ownership of the Sierra operation has been hidden through a
dummy corporation in Lichtenstein, Beacon Sierra Ltd. But now there are
reliable reports that the pirate operation is owned 75% by Japanese
whalers and 25% by Norwegian interests.

Fortunately, the Sierra's sister ship, the Tonna, sank in July. It
was sunk by a whale! The incident occurred 200 miles off the coast of
Portugal. The Tonna had already killed nearly 100 whales and was hea-
vily laden with 450 tons of frozen whale meat.

The Tonna harpooned a huge fin whale and, as the carcass was being




winched onto the deck through the stern slipway for butchering, it rolled
over, pitching the ship on its side. The engine room flooded through
Open portholes and hatches. As the Tonna began to sink, the crew of 42,
including several Japanese, scrambled into lifeboats.

The crew reported that the 52-year-old captain, a Norwegian named
K. Vesprhein, refused to leave the ship. He was last seen clinging to
the bridge With a beer bottle in his hand as the Tonna went under.

. The fact that the Sierra and the Tonna have been captained by Nor-
wegians and used Norwegian harpoons places Norway in clear violation of
IWC resolutions against aiding or supplying unregulated whalers.

Because of Norway's open subversion of even the IWC's own meager
whale conservation quotas (Norwa also sells its harpoons to the outlaw
whalers in Spain, Peru and Chileg, the Animal Welfare Institute has de-
cided to expand its boycott campaign to include Norwegian products.

We urge you to turn your economic pressure against Norway just as
you have against Japan and the Soviet Union. The Japanese business com-

munity is desperately seeking to end Japan's whaling and get us off their
backs.

Write a strong letter to Norway's Prime Minister Odvar Nordli

c/o Embassy of Norway
2720 34th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20008

demanding that Norway halt its commercial whaling -- it is the third
largest whaling nation after the Russians and the Japanese -- and that
Norway halt the manufacture and sale of the deadly harpoons that are
driving the great whales to extinction. Norway is an oil-rich nation
that has no need for this bloody business.

Write to Prime Minister Takeo Fukuda
c/o Embassy of Japan

2520 Massachusetts Avenue
Washington, D.C. 20008

 

 

Dear Prime Minister Fukuda,

I am gravely concerned for the future of the great whales. I.
recognize your concern for the approximately 800 seamen who are still
employed in Japan's whaling industry but that industry is dying.

Enclosed please find one dollar to help the Government of Japan

bring an end to commercial whaling by developing a training program to
give alternative work to the few hundred men now employed on Japan s

last whaling fleet.

Respectfully yours,

P.S. Should you wish to acknowledge this donation, my address is

 




- 4 -

Since we wrote to you in May, the last Australian whaling station
has decided to close. Your letters to Prime Minister Fraser helped to
bring this about. But it was barely in time for the whales that swim
past the Australian coast. Studies released last month show alarming
figures for a pOpulation of whales that Australian scientists had, as
recently as the last IWC meeting, been claiming was quite normal. It
is essential that this p0pulation, in the region the IWC designates as
"Area V" not be attacked by Russian and Japanese whaling fleets, now
that the Australians have given up. And it is essential that the pOpu-
lations of whales in the Western North Pacific not be decimated. The
big male sperm whales were so intensively hunted there ten years ago that
the pOpulations are expected to-continue to go down even‘if no whales
are killed in certain parts of this huge expanse of ocean. Nevertheless
the zero quota which should have been voted at last June's IWC meeting
was not set, and the outlook for the Tokyo meeting is grim.

YOUR LETTERS ARE OF ENORMOUS IMPORTANCE AS WE APPROACH THIS FINAL
PHASE OF THE CAMPAIGN TO SAVE THE WHALES. After you have written and

sent your dollar to Japan and written to the Norwegian Prime Minister,
please let us know if yOu want to continue to be kept informed on the
progress of the fight for the whales. We must remove from our mailing
lists those who may no longer be interested. So please use the enclosed
envelope to confirm that you wish to remain on the list, to give any
change of address or expected change of address in the near future, and
to send a contribution toward mailing costs if you can. Your part in
this work for the whales has been essential. We hOpe to hear from you

and we'd like to know what responses you receive from your letters.
THANKS!

 

 

Sincerely,

(a; ' (Iii;

Christine Stevens
President

 




HOW TO LIVEN UP YOUR CLASSROOM WITH A POD OF WHALES

Some class sessions devoted to programs on the whale can be
valuable in getting across simple scientific concepts to children by
combining our knowledge of the whale with dance, mime, painting and
writing. The child's understanding and awareness of the world around
him Can grow from this.

Tamar Griggs teaches in the public schools of Vancouver a
program she has developed and calls Whale WOrkshops. She says,
'Science is not an isolated entity that is learned solely through
memory and experiment. It is integrated into a creative environment
that focuSes on the child. Our approach involves the direct experience
of the children: reaching the imagination and touching the feelings
as well as the intellect. ' '

Miss Griggs has given us permission to reprint excerpts from her
talk at the National Whale Symposium, University of Indiana, November,
1975.

"Whale WOrkShops grew out of my exploring just what it is to be
alive as a human being. The subjects we cover are biology, myth,
evolution, whaling and conservation. The expressions that we work
through are dance, drama, painting, and writing. We work with
feelings, imagination, intuition, and thought. It is a total involve-
ment for the children.

"The aims of the Workshop are twofold: l) to help children
become aware of nature by giving them an immediate experience which
awakens interest and
concern for the natural
world, and 2) to help
children develop their
inner resources. At the
core of the workshops,
therefore, is the child
and whales. Both are
the focaI point. In the
workshops they are inter-
woven so that at times
the child stands outside
of the whale, looking at
factual information, and
at other times he is
"inside" the whale.

There is a dynamic
connection between the
child and whales: out
there is a magicall§’_
Huge creature we are
studying whose survival
is directly affected by
humans. And yet the
whales are inside us be-
cause we can relate to
them only by our personal
feelings and thoughts.

"We work largely
through the children's
bodies because it is a
vivid way of getting the
children involved. We
ask the children to
feel their own backbones
and to imagine what it
would be like if they
couldn't bend or twist
their backs. Whales are
incredibly supple and
graceful in their motion.

(OVER) Photo by Tamar Griggs

Making a spout and blowhole.

 




"We pull the shades down and ask the children to curl up on the
floor with their eyes closed and to imagine the entire room is filled
with water - slowly they are to grow as big as the room and swim
around as if they were whales. After they have had this experience,
they are much more sympathetic to others.

"One of the most surprising things about whales is that they
are mammals, yet they spend their entire life in the oceans. Being
mammals, they breathe air. 50 we work a lot on breath with the
children. Here's how it goes:

a) Put your hands on your ribs, feel their shape, how they
expand and contract as you breathe.

b) If you were a whale, where would your blowhole be? Close
your eyes, put your fingers on your nose and slowly move
them up your forehead, over the tap of your head to the
back of your neck. That's where your blowhole would be if
you were a whale.

Now, what happens when the whale comes to the surface to
breathe? What does it do? (let out air) What happens to
its blowhOIE? (opens) So it opens its blowhole and lets
the air out. Then what does it do? (breathes in...and?...
closes its blowhole). Whales make a tremendous sound as
they let their air out. On quiet days it can be heard for
several miles.

Can one of you make the sound of the whale breathing?
Everyone try it on your own.

How could you make a blowhole out of your hands?

Let's try to make the sound of one whale breathing. First
let me see your hands above your head. Open them and close
them. At the count of three you will hold your breath, close
your blowhole and when 10 seconds are up (I 11 count them)
you are all to let out your air, inhale quickly and close
your blowhole. READY?

"This may develop into making a blowhole and spout out of the
children's bodies. And eventually you may build an entire whale
with each child becoming a part of the animal.

"This is a graphic way of learning. By feeling your own body
and getting a sense of its shape, you can better appreciate the
form of an alien species. You are identifying with another life form
through exploring the differences and similarities between you. And
pretty soon you can have a classroom where.....

All the whales are swimming together
And eating together

And bumping heads together _
And having fun together with pleasure*”

SAW THE Mimi‘s

*There's a Sound in the Sea by Tamar Griggs (Scrimshaw Press,
San Francisco, I973).

The original pictures in There's a Sound in the Sea of whales

painted by elementary school children are-avarrasra in an eXhibition .
through Ms. Marty Cappelletti at the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
~Exhibition Service, washington, D.C. 20560, for a fee of $350.‘

ANIMAL Wanna Ins'rrrurz
PO. Box 3650
Washington, D. C. 20907

 




THIS PLAYFUL GIANT wouldn‘t be easy to house train, but Nacho
the whale made history when he sought a friend and found it in
John Koehler, captain of a whale-watching ship out of San. Diego.

—Star photo by Georoe Bryant

The 30-foot, 7-lon gray whale used Koehler's dinghy as a toy and
allowed himself (to be pe-tted and scratched. Naturalists are baffled by
the behavior of the affable gray whale off the Mexican coast.

WHALE OF A FRIEND

An ocean giant and man play together in a historic happening

By GEORGE BRYANT
Star associate travel editor

SAN IGNACIO LAGOON, Mexico -— The first
friendly encounter between whale and human
ever r e c o r ded took place this week. A.
young, 30-foot, seven-ton gray whale dubbed
Nacho made history by seeking out the com-
panmof man, using a rubber dinghy as a play-
thiﬁg and allowing himself to be petted and
scratched. '

Never before in the saga ofiocean research,
naturalists believe, has a wild whale deliber-
ately come seeking human companionship and
whale experts are baffled by his behavior.

He’ll grow to 45 feet

The young whale — who will grow to a
length of 45 to 50 feet and an estimated weight
of so to 35 tons—appeared beside our whale-
Watéiﬁng ship, Salado 85, late Monday after-
,neon‘andl stayed with us for the next 24 hours.

The encounter took place in this lagoon on

ﬁle‘west coast of Mexico’s Baja California
Peninsula where thousands of gray whales

spend the winter after swimming 5.030 miles
from their summer range in the Arctic.

The Salado, berth-ed in San Diego, brings
people down here on six-day whale viewing ex-
peditions but no one aboard had ever seen any—
thing like this.

No-t only did Nacho long for company, he
was so persistent at one point that the ship had
to move to allow passengers togo off in the
rubber d-inghies to watch other whales. ,

Estimated to be 2 years old and to weigh
nearly as muchas two full-grown elephants, he
played like a boisterous youngster, rolling and
Splashing and diving, nudging and butting the
raft and obviously enjoying the human atten-
tion. .

At frequent intervals he would suspend
himself in a vertical position and slide his giant.
head from the water to see what his audience
was doing and to be scratched and petted.

‘ At no time did he make- any aggressive

move. In fact, his every action was surprisingly

gentle, moving his gigantic bedy only inches at
a time when being handled by humans.

He appeared beside the ship in the after.
noon while the three dinghies were away from

the ship and played about the hull for an hour,
once seizing the anchor rope in his mouth and
starting to tow it away.

Then the dinghies returned and. he went off
to meet them.

He followed the rubber craft back to the
ship and then, apparently enchanted by the tcx-
ture of ﬁre rafts, began puzzling and playing
around one that had been trailed from the
stern.

Bounced it on his nose

He pushed it and rubbed it, bounced it on
his nose. lifted it on his back, dove beneath it
and generally acted like a mammoth pup with
a new toy.

Periodically he would slide his great head
from the sea to allow a jet of water from the
stern of the Salado to play on his face cr let the
ship’s 33 passengers stroke h i s nose and
scratch his cheeks.

The evening performance went on-until fl

 




An ocean giant

Continued from page 1

pm. when the dinghies
were taken out of the water
in the hope everyone could
get some sleep. And it work-
ed. After making a couple
of circuits of the ship and
diving beneath it to make
sure his toy was gone, he
disappeared.

But he couldn’t have gone
far, because at 5.55 am. he
was back looking for his
rubber playmate and his
new friends.

Back into the water went
the dinghy and for another
three hours he repeated his
act. Even the presence of
another large boat. which
had been radioed to come
and watch the unique show,
didn't disturb him for more
than the few minutes it took
him to swim over and inves-
igate it.

 

 

 

At one point the skipper

of the Salado, John Koehler,
went into the raft to repair
a line broken by the playful
toss of the whale and Nacho
(the Spanish diminutive for
the name ofthe lagoon) slid
the forward part of his head
into the air beside the craft
—- towering above both it
and John -— in an obvious
attempt to see what had
changed the weight of his
plaything.

'l‘his projectiOn of the
head vertically above the
water by whales is known
as spy hopping and there
has been argument about its
purpose.

Some cetologists (whale
experts) maintain it is done
to assist digestion while
others say that it is done to
bring the eyes, which are
well back on th e head,
above the water.

 

 

and man make history

Well, there was no doubt

about what Nacho w a 5
doing. He .was taking a look

into the dinghy. And having !

sat'sfied his curiosity, he
began to play again with
the craft and John, lifting
both in the air and obvious-
ly enjoying be whole thing.

But with all his weight
and power he never once
turned the raft over.

At 9 am. the engines
were started momentarily
and Nacho swam away, giv-
ing the captain a chance to
move the ship farther down
the lagoon so that he could
put some whale watchers
out in the skiffs without
having the m visited by
seven tons of affection.

It worked for the morning
but on an afternoon trip he
suddenly appeared again.
sliding under his favorite

 

 

 

dinghy and lifting it an inch
or so.

The crewman in charge of
the rubber boat, Mary Stein,
headed back to the Salado
with Nacho in tow. Once
there he broke off to play
around the big ship and she
took th e opportunity to
speed away.

But that wasn’t the end of
this unique encounter be-
tween m a n a n d whale.
Later that afternoon he was
spotted playing with anoth-
er young whale and, without
even getting close, Mary
sped away. happy in the
knowledge he had found a
companion.

However, as the dinghy
roared 0 f f through t h e
choppy s e a he appeared
alongside. gliding smoothly
at their speed. For minutes
he held the course. as if in
farewell, then disappeared.

 

Naturalists Fay Wolfson
and Richard Phillips aboard
the Salado and other ex-
perts aboard other‘craft,
say there is no record of
any free whale ever acting
in this manner.

Normally, gray whales
are not aggressive unless
you get between a' mother
and her calf, but they are
shy —— with reason —— and
certainly don’t seek human
company.

Why Nacho did“ is a mys-
tery. But, he gave the
scientists aboard an unipa-
ralleled opportunity to ob-
serve a gray whale at close
quarters in his natural envi-
ronment ._ something no
one has everbeen able to do
before.

And he gave the grateful
passengers aboard the Sala-
do the thrill of a lifetime.

7-ton playmate wants only
man’s friendship

 

By GEORGE BRYANT
Star associate travel editor

SAN IGNACIO LAGOON. Mexico —-
To sit in a frail rubber dinghy and pat
th e barnacle-encrusted head of a
seven-ton untamed youngwhale is an
experience com-prising equal parts of
sheer terror and wild delight.

There’s the 6-foot gash of the mouth
and, as he slides beneath the waves
and rolls, there’s the 10—foot spread of
his belly and now, poised on high.
blocking the sky, the 8-foot width of his
tail flukes, powerful enough to drive a
steam engine through a brick wall.

You are a passenger on a whale-
watching cruise in a lagoon on the west
coast of Mexico's Baja California
Peninsula where thousands of gray
whales are spending the winter.

A n (1 one of them — nicknamed
Nacho by the passengers and crew of
the Salado — has chosen a sunny day
early this week to do what no other
free and untamed whale is known to
have done before: Seek out and thor-
oughly enjoy the companionship of
human beings.

Right there beside you disappearing
in the cloudy depths is size enough and
strength enough to squash you like a
fly — and he has no controls and no
training.

Nobody has apparently ever been
this‘close to a wild. free and uninjured
young whale before and} he’s acting as
no whale ever acted before. Everything
he does is unpredictable.

And still you,trust him. All hehas
exhibited is friendship and a desire for
affection. And he moves the massive
muscles of his body like a ballet star.
You have the feeling he could part
your hair with his tail flukes and you’d
never feel a touch on your scalp.

As you sit there he rolls over again
like a playful pup and then slides down.
again into the clouded waters. slowly,
gently. delicately, and you again mar.-
vel at the grace and absolute control of
this friendly giant.

 

a
e???
E

 

B.-
a

 

A“

J
I

 




lles
less
her
are
and
ran

 

«a \\.. y»

 

-star photo by Georqe Brvant

WITH A DIN‘C

t t .1117 ON III. 4‘ t

whale, shows his Playful Sid: 1:051”, lNacho, a two-year-old gray he became the first whale to seek human companionship allowin
ship out of San Diego. The 30-f:0tP:0P'e aboard a whale-watching people to pet him and scratch him. Experts say they are hafﬂcd hg
_ , -ton Nacho made history when the young whale’s friendly manner. That 6-foot gash is his mouthy

Sheer size
is astounding

And you marvel, too, at the sheer
size of this youngster. Thirty feet does-
n’t sound much when you say it. But
when you see it beside you —- five
times the width of your large raft,

‘ more than a third the length of the big
ship ~— it seems incredible. Standing on
his tail this playful youngster would
tower three storeys and dominate the
landscape.

But he is a child, full of energy.
ready for adventure, and most intri-
gued by you and your artifacts; And
you wonder why‘. How does he differ
from his fellows who, decimated by
whalers, only tolerate your presence?
Why is he the first whale'known to ac-
tively seek out the friendship of man?

 




Plays with

anchor line

Earlier you had stood on the fore
deck of the ship .and watched him seize
the three-inch anchor line in his mouth
and play with it as a dog would play
with a rope.

Some dog, some rope.

When it began to run out nobody, but
nobody, tried to hold it. But when it ap-
peared he might take it all and then

the ship, they decided to put on the!

winch. That, too, might have failedii
he had wanted to force the issue. But
fortunately he didn’t. Iinstead he gave a
few tugs. which swung the ship’s bow
like a weathervane. then let go and
came back to play under the craft.
Later that night. he spent hours
romping about with the rubber dinghy;

receiving admiration and petting and
obviously'loving every minute of it.

When he rolled, his huge eye wou‘ld

inspect the gallery lining the rail like

an actor seeking applause. And then
he’d flip his flukes or roll under the
dinghy and come up for another look.

You had the feeling he knew exactly
what he'was doing.

The big question concerns the futurei
There are still three trips to the lagoon
to be made by the Salado this year and
more. coming up next year. And some
other ships do visit the whale watching

grounds here. Will he continue to come-

calling? And, since whales can com—
municate and learn from others, will
he bring his pals?

Could this be the start of a very com-
panionable relationship between man

and whale? Or will rhe forget us on his

long trip to the Arctic this spring? Or,

worse, meet the wrong peeple and die

because he trusted man.

But whatever happens for good or iii,
no one who was on this trip will ever
forget Nacho —— the first whale to make
a friend of man.

There are no answers. You can dolly
wonder -— and feel a tremendous
sense of gratitude that you were here
when it happened.

And then he nuzzles the raft again
and you reach down to scratch his
nose, too intrigued and awed by the ex-
perience to be frightened, too caught
up in one of life’s great moments to
care.

His skin is soft and smooth, like wet
suede. even where white circles indi#
cate barnacles have once have hold;
and you can feel an irresistable thrulst'
as he moves slowly under your hand
with a power nothing can stay. Cera
tainly nothing you’re capable of doing.

Then he slides beneath the waves for
the last time and is gone and the great
adventure is over. But not forgotten.
Not by you or anyone of the 32 other
passengers or seven crewmen- aboard
the Salado 85.

Reprinted by permission
from The Toronto Star,
February 28, 1976.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

P. 0. BOX 3650

‘VASIIINGTON. D. (f. 2000“~

 




_"*’ A Leﬁcr Em A Wkalc "V

Dear FﬂenAs,

He\\o. I am (1 She w'hdde. I am We b‘xagesi' mmﬂ *hﬁ' has ever \‘wed
on” Em’H‘ - bigger Hum even ‘H'te A‘mosnuvs ! You px’obaMx' Maw-e never 05*qu
seen me at m5, sma\\u’ cous‘ms , Waugh, because we We in We Ocean. My San"
w‘nvo reWc’wes Enducle We Fin, Sve‘rm, Sex, Bowhead, Right . Humqback , wax}, BVYA“,
omii Mknke whers. Ms, smq\\e5\' reh’v’wes ‘m ch36 “18 Ao\9\\'m$ amA ngDiseS. W059
we \we in We ocean, maybe ‘IW‘ “{an we owe ‘hsh‘ bu’c we're no’r. We ave,
mammoAs Suﬁ \‘x’Ke ‘IN‘ [MA I guess H403? makes us Ais’mM (doA'Txvzs

A bus , \on3 Mme (A30 -' 'a‘ow\' 50 o( 60 m\\\‘wn \‘cms ago - mxf cached'
ances’fms \ived on \anA. boxing We Sro'ﬁowMB m‘k\\\ons a? jaws, ., Waugh, HM»,
max/ea 3m We, ocean V36! van! s\ow\\' Wax, “Mayne/M changes Wok maAe Mg
m We ocean waxec. The“ Trmvﬁ \eSs Awebged mVo M‘xg‘aevs The‘w hack has
Aisavgemerl The\( bid 3«wc\oqe& Hokes. 9“ W658 cMav‘ﬁes mode movemewsr in
ﬁne, wcéru wsxen A “nick \o‘x'e" 09: \o\o:\ob€( and“ *Meit 5m u\\ow<¢& Warn +9
\Ne, m cam wokw. S‘moe, vml emceﬁoa wue mamchs «v13 \ovmﬁaecl 0M, H19»,
M50 \mb ’fo Amado? q we“! 0‘} s’mx‘MS ovuA-¢(wa\'e( gm lonﬂ perwAs can-V a hme.
We“, Wu! ance5\'ocs DAA‘A'eA veal we“ *0 W-9A( new emv'ﬂmmm ever. We. vfeszn" -'
Am, wMAes €\(© v2.6! cthQod'a‘ok \"win in We ocecm .

Uﬁoﬁwm’mxh 1m \Aumcms Mme vx-ewx unkem’rooﬁ us whodes mm! well.
Because we \‘we, M Haw comm ‘ (MA \‘ou \‘we an \ow} 0&an va’r have We
(Anomce 3m seeus vecxf 035mm 1 I guess we wwﬂes have (Aways scanner} a \o'd'
Myshﬁous. NouM \Im \oe\‘\w¢ Wok \{ou (MA I have ox \o\' in common? We“,
ska“? as W may seem, we (X9! We. wMa\es «\so Maggen \'o \oe war
3w’€€\\igew\’ cmﬁuﬂts. M‘! \om'm , QM emmqk, is one a: “4% mos} comdcx
BMW!) 05} a\\ Em’ﬁn's Au‘tmtAs. I am Sum WA)! we ‘WMAWS om) ~1cm. Mumoms

Maw mam, seue’fs ‘\'o \mch Sham one, o‘vw‘W‘u. We «(z QwCQ/QOA' thfrnd,

 




-2—

50c‘m\ om‘xwxab. one.“ we (own We seas ‘m 3““95 cc 9035 - $rohck§vx3 539W“,
" *Mkmj‘ 3“, pm. amp-Wu , and some’ﬁmes wan s‘wnﬂivng *oseAMQ/c Mn, cousins We
Humﬁmck w\ao\\e$ am Qamous Ynx Wm 50m35. Swat eggs Music soc-id Md S'QWRN
b\'€uc\'u(es .s‘\m\\o\( *0 19% own , om) \Mbﬂb Lamqu WM W0“ 0‘; mam] U’Mx
animoAs, ﬁx examph, \oes‘xhes wnl Mow“, I have em “owmhe” *0 *akm can, 93}
we 'vd\n\\z I am avow‘wﬂ uQ. SM is a svc’c 0?: MM' OMA haw 5M“ Combine&.
- We owe a\so sew.s'\¥\ve‘ comma am‘wmb. H MOW2( qu\e is vzq \ou'xwﬂ OMA
pro’fec\'\xle *owowa \nev: \Ooﬁaxl COW. lubﬁv‘ﬂhuoﬁ whdes max, came *0 “n9, 0&3 o:
MoX'Mu Mamba: 0‘} We (99A Auﬁnﬂ kmes as} Roman. 50, you see, even Waugh
we aw» ‘ooK 09c 0M a\\\<eI \{ou ma 1 «(NW .50 Aksrkcen’c 05*“ a“!

Yam onceksha knew wen \ess abomﬁ 05 w\no.\es ‘Waw \[w A0. Thu] Woojh’f
we wea: mtewﬁevc: Yv‘ow: 36w, Aeeg, and Wm! Mom’veA us Aoww w\\'\n *Meﬁc boners and
\«mcgvvm. The-1 me<c\'\zss\\i k‘x\\€¢l as .59 “(mi cou\£\ make smokekss cans/«Mes, o"\\
S,“ "(Mew \awngsi M15 (Maw “ﬂack. Owing We, 1300's I A cM’mM ¥o\\(\o(e
302w £00m): ms Wham. Sack ‘m Wose Ron’s, I Sues!) mm “40ng 3* was
rxéx‘vzu’mnms 3(0 50M a? MW A wMonnj «cw (MA said We high seas M
Sam’o'v a: We. \a(36$\' Aw’umd ow Eaur’dn. in We. woods 0; 1w \nuwvwms, “nose,
wem We, “ (omnn¥ic" amt!) 0‘ 19M “"3 Misha! cg “Shade \mvﬁ'iv5. Bzhevc we,
MWNSM we Max/9. hie}! ‘\'o “MAMS’tuwa, we, wMers See vwWivuﬂ (omowﬁ'ic 00000? 1".
Yuk \‘ooxseﬁ in 00K ghee omA I‘m SuKe you‘“ agree.

NMzhvan ' ceva’mq wM-OMV‘E me‘X' {omen/Me , \rm’v I'm w'\\\'\vu3 *0 aAmW “AG"
'\¥ \MAY Move \o’eevt ahvzm’mwus *0 some men, comwﬁ q “Anode ‘wx W059. Aays
(«51¢ch a oedaivx Amoun\’ 0" «m. Once one :5? us w\na\€$ was sijM’m). “mm
was vw yoxm’tw M» We wMercs can“ cahh mm. Same a? as cowl Sw'nm .
Qas’au ‘\'\nam We“ \ooa\'s. Those 0‘} us w\ao we“, dew“ swimmecs sowehmes
ecu“ we'd \noxqoomxs \ml s’mx'mﬂ umbtuwouw goc \owa Quﬁoés (a a ‘\"\\M£.

Ni“, equSV \oangfowua ingocma’riovn 0&0th M wMers. The, (€a\ (ea-50V"

 




-3-

1 am wc‘x’dv‘ﬂ \10u is ‘Vo \oﬂng ﬂour aHem’dm *0 0. van, \mqod'awd' Ma’r’te" -- Made,
\wuvn’c‘xwﬂ +0Aay. WMoMnﬂ brim! is a Maw Alﬁemw’r 5+0“, Sum “immenw - ”yam“,
wManﬂ. I’r \s Aeg‘mﬁ'dx, no’r vomon’Hc. 1* is mo¥ even adven‘hmus‘ To 9“); 3* 5mg?»
wManS huh»! £5 \oacbmc MA cmeL Vow mohem Ame; 9&3?qu MW scum“ wax
ex‘AoSNe kwqoows Jmke awax' Av“! advaw‘mje we wMoMS W1&\' Made once \naA. As soon
as we we \ocu’mh \oxl sown , we me as 300A «.5 End. “we is no Wm! we, can
escwpe. H5 a «,3ng 1 \‘we in comshm’r View 03} \oeﬁnj Roma \o\‘ a wMaMuj shy. In -
MAW 0M \nom’, a Qac‘voq she can cMamje, me, Qmm ox \nww, VeaceQuA Made in’ro
a \ou\'c\ne(e& mass 0‘; Maori, wea‘v, MA bones. \O'Mn 10% new 59am 'Oﬂe *edhmobﬁxl,
\{m com W“ as Wwwh' o; as wMaAes in one Any «5 Yew smashes 3m} in one 7%“.
We She, w\z\a\es own) INK (Mae: cousins have been k‘dkA in sqdn 3‘ng HUM/ﬂows
*Moér we we M amjw 0\' Mama/«‘43 “XL/u}. 1'} MM :‘rcxkew as whdaé ‘V‘vu\\\{,~-./g:s
'9‘wa \M'\\\iovns 0‘} ﬂaws ’fo eve-Ne Mb 0m pcesmﬁ high froﬁm a; We. Ya, in a
Qeﬁorl 0‘? a frew {Mn/3v AewAes, Y0“ \Auwmvns have choffenea 4Y0 (Mace us a“ 3m
a mac memoq.

Foﬁuvxa’mk," my} a\\ coovﬁcies me ivwo'lveé ‘m wmknj. The, 3mm mm'n mung
'MA‘xomb brim! we Sagan cma We. Sex/Re} mum. Ne ho «03v quus’mﬂA wk; “new
*wo com/Mics covmvme 5w Monk as Anew“ aw}: $\aoj\n\'er us \ox' “no “nouns/uh eve“,
19m - esqecww since o’dnev na’rkons have (Ko’mshé Hack Ac‘rions. Maybe i’r is
become- as} money. Boer “new, (main!) \MR “0&9; b be make in wMa\‘m3. A“ NM“:
«dad's cam akeaax’ \oe «(Maul MW inexvevuswc commerciad suMs’r'Smhs M ace.
3n} as 3003, cc 6V9“ \oeﬂﬁu. Do \{ou know dad: I ‘Wivxk? T. Hawk 1N 6Mou\&
W<'\\'z ‘\'o Kama Mimis’fec Fukucka o3} Sagan uni} (Jew/(M Set/(aha! Banknev as} Hm.
Sax/wk 0mm. Ana h,“ Wm Huff “I” wish New conﬁnes mum 55mg k“\\\inj us
wMa\%. You com wdh ’n: “Aim 03‘ “4% $o\\owivxj aﬁmssest

* Pﬁmt Ninﬁs’m Takw Fukwln , Emma 0‘ 50f»: * Gem/Cd Seﬁthq bani) Scuva, EM‘I’W‘] 9‘ ”-551
zszo mmyusgxx, AvguNw wmujmmm. 2.0008 ms ML. S¥.,Nw WMMMKVM ,o.c. 20035

 




-4-

Bevaz us, we Macks an, \AOQW \ozimj wkoAzs. We (XOVN waw’r *0 ‘02 $40“ “WV".
;@‘\"\\'\2-“ -. D< mink 3hm). We on ekpicmw Aegevusdess {34%va \{om’ ’quMO‘on'. H“
we com 30 \5 «ma *0 \{ou ouC ses’mas 15¢ Qdewashig aux/13k ouc @ws Y'oc wmgmsion.
(Mm-90% you have Mom); 0‘: w” cous'm Nacho. We, CMSSmmm (mu! w\r\n\& wMo mﬂbt
Mis’mq \m’ seekmg Mumavt COWQW‘WMSWV- The, Ca\\§o(nia (7cm; whaks \AONQ. been

Qrﬁuha 5km,“ wMa\c(5.. 9‘99“qu wux‘ G'Cax‘ covsﬁws have , 3m a Name! Dvucome
ﬂew grew 09: you humans (M3 ace ugcusmﬂ sz ¥r§cw\s\nie.) TWL $ivm\

8%.qu «ﬁnding We, $039, 03: us wMaAes \ies em’rivdx’ Sn \{bm’ \AOMILS, ﬂame,
5M0“) a \‘A-He, \numamxw, 9% at“, ismW "\Auwavka‘" ”£90593 b be; one o;

\[oux ou’vshmémg "human " chamchnshcs 7 The, sivn\\ad‘n‘ a? “at, ero wank
is no mwz, coimdbmmm, “we, Md? saw us wMers!

ﬂ Q Youc kiwi},

Pt BN9, whak

 

9.5. Wk, “We, cousin. We ﬁAQMRn wax/A's \gou *0 he)? him, he. His Ema/was am) Sishts

Mt acownmﬂ in 3NMOK 91$wa mw's “95"5. You 5%, aowMMS m3 ‘hvw RSV Mm +0
sw‘xm *DSQXMM. WMM “at $i$\n1(m©m w’rda <3ch (own) u? We hwa in Hack

n63, We; &o\()\nins \oecome whujka. '00\(>\Aivus Mi mawwak «MA \ovzaWt 0M.
WM“ We“. 32)" whvugka ‘m 3M; mks, W24 com“: Comm *0 5M: surSmaL *o
\0(m‘(\o‘t,t\{ou can Mew ow S‘mwés M4 “0* \om‘ing oc coking hum (ﬁsh W‘H
Pm gisMumm she k'\\\mj “at Blowwms.

W
3" Avﬁwwﬂ Nash“ insh‘uh 1 9.0. 30X 3550 , wQSMMSRn ‘ 0.C. 7.0007 if

 




.By CHRISTINE STEVENS

Befriending Animals

Christine Stevens, Animal Welfare Institute, New York, gives a national
and international view of humane education and its relatedness to class-

room activities.
not difﬁcult to teach kindness to animals.

As THE CHILD EXPERIENCES THE KINDLY
emotions which can be brought out in
such simple ways as giving food to a
hungry animal or water to a thirsty one,
he naturally develops an attitude of mind
which is a basic need of civilized human
beings. The need for this gentle and
considerate point of view is greater today
than ever before in the history of the
world.

The abuse of strength and power by
any individual becomes more serious as
the numbers of human beings increase, as
scientiﬁc power increases and as the
natural world correspondingly shrinks.
It is essential that the children growing
up in the 1960’s be truly humane. They
can learn to become so through happy
experiences in befriending animals.

Many teachers have told me how much
they value the various humane educa-
tional materials supplied to them by ani-
mal protective organizations with which
I have worked. They point out that noth-
ing else is so effective in character de-
velopment and so much enjoyed by
children While they are learning.

This approach was initiated by George
T. Angell, founder of the American
Humane Education Society. He was
deeply impressed by the fact that none of
the inmates of a Boston prison had ever
owned a dog or other pet as a child. By
the same token cruelty to animals often

426

Since children have a natural interest in animals, it is

forms a prelude to crimes against human
beings; for example, Francis H. Bloeth,
who murdered three people and who had
previously shown a liking for gruesome
methods of killing cats. Clearly, it is of
great importance that no school activity
should ever give encouragement to the
development of callous or sadistic atti-
tudes.

Kindness to Animals

Around the World

Our country is a leader in humane
education, and recognition of its impor-
tance is reﬂected in the fact that twenty-
nine states have legislation requiring the
teaching of humane education in their
public schools. Others have followed our
lead and advance the teaching of humane
principles in different ways. In such
faraway countries as Japan and Tan-
ganyika, contests for the best paintings
and posters illustrating kindness to ani-
mals play an important part in the pro-
gram. A Christmas card published by
the Japan Animal Welfare Society and a
poster from the Tanganyika Branch of
the Royal Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals expreSs the spirit of
kindness and sympathy so well stated by
Dr. Albert Schweitzer: “We need a

boundless ethics that will include the

’9

animals also. It is in this spirit of

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




 

Reverence for Life that the Humane Edu-
cation Institute of Africa was recently
formed. Nearer home, in Canada, the
Kindness Club is ﬂourishing. Each
branch takes an animal name—raccoon,
beaver, chipmunk—but they stand for
kindness to all animals. The Kindness
Club was founded because of the demand
of the children of New Brunswick when
they learned how greatly animals need
such help. The information was gathered
in the course of an essay contest on the
protection of animals. The guide book

Frederic C. Matthaei,
president of

Matthaei Foundation
which last spring
built the Shelter of
the Humane Society
of Washtenaw County,
Michigan, with one

of the many

children who have
adopted an animal
from the “orphanage”

Esther Bubley

MAY 1962

for leaders now being published may
prove useful in the United States, too.
(See Atlantic Advocate, December 1961.)

The Field Rangers, an English chil-
dren’s club, is in contact with some ﬁfteen
thousand school children. With three
regular weekly classes, monthly outings,
summer camp, “Information Bureau”
library of animal books and monthly ﬁlm
showings, the group is very active. A
special feature is the Pets Corner run for
mentally retarded children in Fountain
Hospital. Club members make two eve-

 

427




ning attendances at the hospital each
week as well as Sunday mornings.

Classroom Activities

Humane education through club activ-
ities ties in well with humane teaching in
the classroom. Here are some notes from
a teacher who visits classrooms for the
San Francisco SPCA: “The children are
enthusiastic . . . Teachers say that the
children apply these kindly feelings to
each other . . . There are always a few
children who do not have pets. I never
urge them to beg their parents to get
them one, because there may be condi-
tions at home making it undesirable to
have one. Instead I suggest special proj-
ects: collecting pictures and stories of
animals from newspapers to put in scrap-
books or visiting the zoo, then going to
the library to borrow books about the
animals they are most interested in.
When a child has just a goldﬁsh I try to
make him feel fortunate, and point out
that even a ﬁsh can be a pet if it is treated
as one. One little girl told me about her
four-year-old goldﬁsh: ‘He is a real pet.
When I feed him I put the food on my
ﬁnger and put my ﬁnger on top of the
water and he comes up to eat.’ I stress
the Golden Rule . . . ‘Treat pets and all
other animals the way you would like to
be treated if you had been born a pet or
any other kind of animal.’ I printed it
in large letters on a piece of cardboard
on which I pasted colored pictures of
animals, and I usually have one child
volunteer to read it to the class, then I
ask the entire class to read it in unison.”

For the teacher who lacks special
knowledge, manuals, books, leaﬂets and
posters which are available free or for a
small sum can be helpful. First Aid and
Care of Small Animals1 (free to
teachers) provides expert information on
helping all sorts of small creatures in
distress.

428

Visit Animal Shelter

A visit to the local humane society
shelter can be very rewarding, and basic
facts about the care and handling of pets
can be illustrated. Young children are
delighted with an opportunity to hold a
puppy or kitten and deeply impressed
when shown exactly how to do this: sup-
porting the animal’s weight with one
hand while holding his front legs with the
other and resting him against the child’s
chest. Respect for the feelings of the
animals is readily learned as each child
shows proudly how comfortably he can
hold a friendly pup. The principles on
which humane societies and SPCA’s are
founded are brieﬂy outlined, and even
the youngest child readily grasps the wish
of each animal for a good home.

Another excellent followup is to have
some calm and friendly pet spend a
morning in the classroom. Discussion on
his needs and care can be extended to
different subjects. Painting and drawing
him and writing about him may be tied in
with reading or storytelling, depending
on the children’s ages.

Science and Humane Education

Science teaching goes hand in hand
with humane education in the study of
nature. A class visit to a park, farm or
woodland opens up great opportunities
for observing animals in their natural
surroundings and for developing the
careful and thorough observation that
every great scientist has demonstrated
and the respect and compassion for fellow
inhabitants of the earth that every truly
civilized human being must have.

Of paramount importance in science
teaching is the strict avoidance of any
activity which might cause distress to
animals either in or out of classroom.

1 Ernest P. Walker, First Aid and Care of Small Animals
Animal Welfare Institute, P.O. Box 3492, Grand Central Station,

New York, N.Y. 10017 CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




International News Photo

A hummingbird gets a drink from an eye-dropper.

Some teachers have been persuaded to
starve small animals in the classroom to
demonstrate long-established facts about
nutrition. The gruesome symptoms of
these unfortunate captives are then ob-
served by the children who, it is assumed,
will thenceforward eat a balanced diet.
That they will have been hardened to the
sufferings of those weaker than they and
will have made a serious start toward the
stultification of all compassionate feel-
ings for the defenseless is brushed aside
as unimportant. This is the antithesis of
genuine education; and when it is carried
to surgery, poisons, cancer implants and
other painful procedures on living ani-
mals, its effects on impressionable young
people are likely to go beyond callous-
ness to sadism. We cannot afford to
accept such teaching practices in a

civilized nation, and first-rate science
teaching neither needs nor uses them.

Humane education can be correlated
with the arts as effectively as it can be
with social studies and science. Original
plays by children, in which they act the
parts or in which they use hand puppets
representing animals, can be a great suc-
cess both with the producers and the
viewers. A play about Saint Francis of
Assisi written by a superintendent Of
schools offers possibilities for young
actors.

Children have a natural interest in
animals, and it is not difficult to develop
feelings of sympathy and desire to help
living creatures who are smaller and
more helpless than the children them-
selves.

Reprinted from CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

MAY

1962

ASSOCIATION FOR CHILDHOOD EDUCATION INTERNATIONAL
615 Wisconsin Avenue Northwest
Washington 16, D. C.
Releaseii through
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION UUA
25 Beacon Street, Boston 8, Mass.

Five Cents

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3350
WAIHING‘I‘ON. D. C. 20007

High School Science Coordinator Devises System.to Prevent

Cruel or Hazardous Science Fair Projects

The following article by an experienced Coordinator for
Mathematics and Science was prepared at the request of the
Animal Welfare Institute in order to inform.high school biology
teachers of a workable system for preventing cruel or dangerous
science projects from being undertaken by young students.

The Alexandria (Virginia) City Public Schools, Office of
Secondary Education, issued a policy statement which.reads, in
part, as follows:

"In order to provide guidelines governing experimentation
with live vertebrate animals by science students in the public
schools of Alexandria and in order to provide a statement of
policy intended to assist science teachers in instructing students
in humanitarian goals, the Office of Secondary Education and the
teachers under its direction adopt as two leading rules the
following:

1. Animals being observed by students must always be maintained
in the maximum.possible condition of health, comfort and
well-being.

No vertebrate animal used for secondary school teaching may
be subjected to any experiment or procedure which interferes
with its normal health or causes it pain or distress.

"Naturally, the interpretation of the above rules might vary.
The rules should be applied with discretion and common sense. They
do not exclude animal experimentation nor the killing of vertebrates
to obtain specimens. Also, though the emphasis is on vertebrates,
this does not mean that humanitarian attitudes are irrelevant in
experiments involving non-vertebrates. Rather, they represent an
objective statement of a subjective state of mind which we, as
science educators, ought to possess and which we should communicate

to our students."

With this concept as a basis, the system described below was
adopted and has proved effective in raising the level of local
science fairs.

 

 

 

 




 

ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL OVER SCIENCE FAIR
PROJECTS

By

William Dunkum, Coordinator
For Mathematics and Science
Alexandria City Public Schools,
Alexandria, Virginia

If a school is serious about its intention to
insure that science fair projects meet proper standards
of humanity, safety, and validity then the school must
set up some one to judge the projects in terms of these
standards before the regular judges get to see them.

There are two times when this preliminary judg-
ment can be made ~~ at the door when the student brings
in his project for display or before he even starts to
work on his project. Far too many schools choose the
former time and that time is far too late. To stop a
project right before it goes in the door to the science
fair is bad public relations and shows poor planning on
the part of the science fair organizers. How many science
fair organizers really know what the projects to be enter-
ed are going to be like? Is there any wonder that science
fairs exhibit unsafe and cruel projects on occasion? What
hardy soul was going to tell Johnny Jones and his doting
parents (who calmed their own qualms by telling themselves
it was science and that justified it) that he cannot ex~
hibit the grisly photographs of the mice he had been as-
phyxiating for three months to determine if he could breed
a line of skin-breathing mice on the assumption that the
fit will survive and not die when he put a plastic bag over
their heads? Who indeed? Judging by the number of similar-
ly obscene and inhuman projects which have won awards in
national fairs it would appear that the answer is No One.

This situation must change. School administrators
must do their job, and they must begin to plan science
fairs far enough in advance that these horrors may be
stopped in their inception. Not only inhumane projects,
however, can and ought to be stopped before they reach

the final stage -~ the unsafe and dangerous ones too must
never be begun.

 

 




 

 

Although the interest of high school students in biological research
certainly is commendable and should be encouraged, living animals some-
times are mistreated in laboratory exercises. Such practices must be
condemned by all legitimate scientists who respect life and understand
research. There is no justification for conducting in the secondary
school an experiment which.would cause pain to an animal.

Secondary school administrators should insist that every experiment

involving live animals fulfill at least the following conditions:

1. No experiment using live animals should be attempted unless
comfortable quarters, adequate food and water, and humane
treatment can be provided.

2. Such an experiment should have as a clearly defined objective
the teaching of some biological principle which cannot be
taught effectively without animals. ‘

3. Important collateral objectives of every such experﬂment should
be to train students in the proper handling of animals and to
teach reverence for life in any form.

A. If the school faculty includes nobody with training in the
prOper care of laboratory animals, the services of such a
person on a consulting basis should be sought. Often a local

veterinarian is happy to offer this kind of help.

W. W. Ammistead, Dean
College of Veterinary Medicine
Michigan State University

 

 




But how to do it? Simple. Have each student
fill out an "INTENT TO EXHIBIT IN SCIENCE FAIR" form)
before he starts his project. Have him.submit it to
his teacher and have the teacher sign it (if the teacher
approves it) and submit it to the science department
chairman (if it is only a local school fair) or to the
science supervisor (if it is an area fair). Thus two
people will be aware of the project before it is begun
and can stop it if it should be stopped or encourage it
if it should be encouraged. The use of this preliminary
form.has other advantages which are listed below:

1. Provides an estimate of the maximum.number
of science fair projects which need to be planned for
in the science fair exhibit area.

2. Provides an estimate of the number of ex-
hibits in each category (this is essential in order to
plan for the proper number of judges in each area).

3. Provides an estimate of the number of stu-
dents who planned a science fair project but never
carried it through.

A. By having teachers pass out and discuss the
forms in the beginning of the year, it will mean that
students will be starting to plan their exhibits farther
in advance ~— and the earlier they start, the better they
will be when exhibit time comes around later.

(Sample Form.on page u)

 

 

 




wags!

STATEMENT OF INTENT TO ENTER AN EXHIBIT IN SCIENCE FAIR

Student's Name

 

 

First Middle m
Grade Subject enrolled in

Teacher's Name School

 

Which category will your project be entered in? (Check one)
Astronomy ( ) Earth Science ( ) Biology ( ) Chemistry ( )
Electronics ( ) Physics ( ) Medicine ( ) Botany ( ) Zoology ( )

What will your project be about?

 

 

 

 

 

 

Will your project involve live animals? Yes ( ) No ( )

Will your project involve any of the following? (Check if applicable)

Radioactive substances ( ) Explosive substances ( )

High Voltages ( ) Liquid Gases ( ) Poisons ( ) Strong Acids ( )

GIVE THIS FORM TO YOUR TEACHER FOR APPROVAL

Teacher's Signature

 

(Sign only if you approve the project)

 




Better Nutrition Studies

Nutrition experirnents. What is the ﬁrst thing that
comes to mind when you hear those words? Do
you think of deprivation studies or something else?
Those teachers and students who equate nutrition
experiments with deprivation studies betray a de-
cided lack of imagination. Unfortunately, various
commercial bodies have so successftu promoted
inadequate-diet experiments on animals (by pro-
viding free animals and “deprivation kits”) that
high school teachers haVe been conditioned to accept
these studies in the curriculum and as suitable
science-fair projects, often to the exclusion of more
revealing experiments. This heavy reliance on im-
proper-feeding experiments should be replaced by
nutrition studies that are more humane and more
relevant to society’s needs.

What’s Wrong with Deprivation Studies

Present guidelines for the use of animals in
science fairs require that deprivation-of-nutrients
experiments “proceed only to the point where symp-
toms of the deﬁciency appear” (National Society
for Medical Research Ad Hoc Committee, 1969).
However, this caution has proved ineffective be-
cause inexperienced youngsters working at home
(and even teachers, if untrained in pathology) can-
not identify that “point.” The lingering death of
deprived animals has been reported at several sci-
ence fairs, and yet the students have said they had
no idea the animals were so sick.

These guidelines also require that after disease
symptoms appear the dietary deﬁciency shall, if

Author’s address: 24 Plainﬁeld St., Waban, Mass. 02168.

484 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER, NOVEMBER 1970

By F. BARBARA ORLANS

possible, be corrected; otherwise the animals must
be humanely put to death. As most youngsters do
not have the experience, the equipment, or the
knowledge of the symptoms and doses needed to
fulﬁll these requirements, they should not under-
take diet-deﬁciency experiments for science com-
petitions.

In addition to the technical difﬁculties of con-
ducting these experiments properly, there are moral,
psychologic, and social objections to deprivation
studies in elementary and secondary schools. Is it
morally justiﬁable to demonstrate established facts
over and over again when animal suffering is in-
volved? If the intentional inﬂiction of crippling
disease is tolerated, then with as much justiﬁcation
the effects of bad driving could be portrayed by
squashing animals between metal and concrete until
their bodies are crushed. Plainly, the adverse effects
of such demonstrations outweigh their possible edu—
cational beneﬁts. Surely the many alternative ways
of conveying the same information—movies, dis-
cussions, and the like-—are preferable to those that
harm animals.

How readily do students relate their own food
habits and human nutritive problems to the ex-
perience of watching rats slowly losing their hair
and developing swollen eyes, bloody nostrils, and
pneumonia? A youngster may not be persuaded
by the teacher’s directive, “Well, now go and eat a
good breakfast.”

Hurting Animals Has Hardening Effects

It is of paramount importance that the child ﬁrst
develop a positive attitude to life and be protected

 

 




 

from violent experiences. A youngster is not asked
to put an animal to death; nor should he be required
to hurt one. Yet insensitiveness to these issues has
led the National Dairy Council (1968) to promote
second-grade class demonstrations of growth re-
tardation in chickens not fed milk products. Such
activities can be emotionally upsetting or—even
worse—emotionally desensitizing or hardening, to
immature minds. It is wrong to condition children
from an early age to watch or participate in hurting
animals. How much better it would be to have
second-graders undertake studies suggested in the
Kindness Club Project Manual (National Humane
Education Center, 1969).

A manual produced by another commercial en-
terprise to promote inadequate-diet experiments on
animals by young students states, “One who loves
animals will deeply sympathize with the [diseased]
animals when their symptoms appear but he must
realize that this is the result we have been working
for. .. .” (General Biological Supply House, 1937).
But should we help children to overcome or, on
the other hand, to preserve their reluctance to hurt
animals? Sensitive youngsters turn away from de-
liberate inﬂiction of pain and disease on helpless
animals. They do not want to be responsible for
causing animals to become blind, unable to walk,
or retarded in growth. There are many accounts of
teenagers sabotaging class demonstrations of in-
adequate-diet effects by slipping the mice wholesome
nourishment when the teacher wasn’t looking. In
these formative years, should not kindly instincts be
fostered rather than suppressed?

Disproportionate Emphasis on Vitamins

The U. S. Food and Drug Administration has
said, “Vitamins and minerals are supplied in abun-
dant amounts by commonly available foods. Except
for persons with special medical needs, there is no
scientiﬁc basis for recommending routine use of
dietary supplements” (Federal Register, Dec. 14,
1966: 31 FR 15746). Many food and drug company
advertisements, however, prefer to suggest that
large numbers of affluent, overfed Americans may
suffer vitamin deﬁciencies, and too many teachers
unwittingly promote this fancy by undue attention
to vitamin-deﬁciency experiments. James L. God-
dard, former commissioner of the U. S. Food and
Drug Administration, has declared, “We may al-
ready have achieved an optimum of misunderstand-
ing about the nature and value of [vitamin] prod-
ucts” (Goddard, 1968; italics in original).

Attention should be directed, instead, to the real
American problem: obesity. As many as 23% of teen-
age girls and 18% of teenage boys are obese—and
obese youngsters are less likely to be accepted at
high-ranking colleges (Canning and Mayer, 1966).
Among the middle-aged, obesity is accompanied by
a threefold rise in heart disease. Among the poor,
some 44% of women and 34% of men are obese

(Goldblatt, Moore, and Stunkard, 1965). How in-
structive and constructive it would be, if youngsters
(especially those from improverished homes) were
told to purchase a week’s breakfast of high nutritive
value for a small sum, recording the relative costs
of protein, carbohydrates, and fats. Constructive
advice about fad foods and the factors that result
in obesity would constitute practical education in
nutrition. Sound, scientiﬁc facts and answers to
commonly asked questions about obesity are pro-
vided by the professor of nutrition at Harvard
University in an excellent book, Overweight (May-
er, 1968).

Sound Ways of Teaching Nutrition

Of course, there are many ways to learn about
the deleterious effects of poor diet without harming
or killing animals. Clive M. McCay, professor of
nutrition at Cornell University, has pointed out
that “hundreds of good nutritional experiments...
can be done without any suffering of the animal (5) ”
(McCay, 1956). For instance, compare the rates of
growth of animals kept on (i) standard laboratory
chow given ad lib. with those kept on (ii) a varied
diet comprising many different kinds and tastes
of foods and those on (iii) a varied diet with high
protein content. Does diet affect their social be-
havior? Demonstrate in class how animals, when
offered both suitable and unsuitable foods, will
select a balanced diet of correct proportions and
amounts. The lesson is, if rats can do this, so per-
haps can teenagers! Measure the metabolic rates
of animals and human beings. Show photographs
or movies of well-conducted demonstrations of im-
proper animal diet. (See references for movies.)
Make chemical analyses of foods for mineral con-
tent.

Keep a detailed record of students’ eating habits
and assess the nutritive values. Elicit reaction time,
decision-making ability, and work ability of a group
of students who have regularly omitted breakfast
for four weeks; then have them eat a good breakfast
and retest, comparing the results. (A simple, stan-
dard psychologic test, which could be used, is the
time taken to sort a deck of cards into suits and
rank. The results may comport with recent pro-
fessional findings that made use of a variety of
tests: when breakfast was omitted students took
longer to make decisions, had less neuromuscular
control, and did less work.) Collect data on the
school-lunch and milk programs: does the avail-
ability of hot lunches and milk coincide with dis-
tribution to the neediest children?

Study newspaper accounts of famine in Biafra
or India. Read the recent HEW national survey of
malnutrition in the United States, by Arnold E.
Schaefer (1969). Make a study of local welfare dis-
tribution to the indigent and try to assess its ade-
quacy. Study the objectives of the National Council
on Hunger and Malnutrition in the United States

BETTER NUTRITION STUDIES 485




and read its Action Reports (available from the
Council, \1211 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Washington,
DC. 20036). Ponder the concise book, Still Hungry
in America, by Coles and Clayton (1969).

Check local shops for fortiﬁed or enriched foods;
for example, milk or bread to which vitamins and
other nutrients have been added, and iodized salt.
(A recent national survey found that 5% of people
examined had an enlarged thyroid gland, indicating
iodine deﬁciency; yet 40% of food markets surveyed
in Texas failed to stock iodized salt and the shop-
keepers were unfamiliar with its purpose [Schaefer,
1969].) Compare the cost of milk fortiﬁed with vita-
min D with the cost of unfortiﬁed milk. Currently
there is no law governing the enrichment of foods;
discuss the advisability of such a law.

The following examples are taken from interest-
ing nutrition pamphlets issued by the US. Food
and Drug Administration (see references). Ask the
students to make a list of food additives on labels
of foods that have been purchased for use at home
and determine which are useful and which are
potentially harmful (such as monosodium glutamate
in baby foods and cyclamates in soft drinks—,both
of which were recently banned). Check labels from
a variety of foods and classify all label statements
according to which requirements of the Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act the statements are intended to
meet. Give three students an identical shopping
list (for example, bread, orange juice, cheese, and
canned peas) and have them shop individually, with-
out adult help. Compare their purchases and have
them explain how they decided on each purchase.
Compare methods of food preparation and preser-
vation 50 or more years ago with present—day meth—
ods. Visit a grocery warehouse, a food-processing
plant, or a farmer’s grain bin.

Many other studies could be added, but enough
suggestions have been offered to indicate the range
of pertinent and compassionate investigations that
will inform students about current problems while
providing a sound education in nutrition.

REFERENCES

CANNING, H., and J. MAYER. 1966. Obesity: its possible effect
on college acceptance. New England Journal Of Medicine
275: 1172-1174.

COLEs, R., and A. CLAYTON. 1969. Still hungry in America. New
American Library, New York.

GENERAL BIOLOGICAL SUPPLY HOUSE, INC. 1937. Laboratory ex-
periments in nutrition. Privately printed, Chicago.

C(EmARD, J. L. 1968. Quoted in Congressional Record, Nov. 1:

-9561.

GOLDBLATT, P. B., M. E. MOORE, and A. J. STUNKARD. 1965. So-
cial factors in obesity. Journal of the American Medical As-
sociation. 192: 1039-1044.

MAYER, J. 1968. Overweight. Prentice-Hall, Inc., Englewood
Cliffs, N. J.

MCCAY, C. M. 1956. Animal experiments by high school stu-
dents. (Information report 5: 2.) Animal Welfare Institute,
New York City.

NATIONAL DAIRY COUNCIL. 1968. Animal feeding demonstra-
tions. Privately printed, Chicago.

486 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER, NOVEMBER 1970

NATIONAL HUMANE EDUCATION CENTER. 1969. The Kindness Club
project manual. Privately printed, Waterford, Va.

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR MEDICAL RESEARCH AD Hoc COMMITTEE.
1969. Guiding principles in the use of animals by secondary
school students and science club members. Available from
Science Service, 1719 N St., N.W., Washington, DC. 20036.

SCHAEFER, A. E. [chief, nutrition program, HEW]. 1969. Re-
marks, on Jan. 22, to Senate Select Committee on Nutrition
and Related Human Needs.

U.S. FOODAND DRUG ADMINISTRATION. 1967a. How safe is our
foo-'1? (“Life protection” series pub. 41.) Superintendent of
Documents, Washington, DC.

. 1967b. Additives in our food. (“Life protection” series

pub. 43.) Superintendent of Documents, Washington, DC.

. 1968a. Identity of artiﬁcial color on oranges. (“Science

project” series pub. 54.) Superintendent of Documents,

Washington, DC.

. 1968b. Rapid identity of margarine and butter. (“Sci-

ence project” series pub. 56.) Superintendent of Documents,

Washington, DC.

. 1968c. Identity of synthetic colors in foods. (“Science ~

project” series pub. 57.) Superintendent of Documents,

Washington, DC.

 

 

 

 

 

The following ﬁlms describe the role of vitamins and the
effects of deﬁciency. Names of ﬁrms that lend the ﬁlms with-
out rental charge are given in parentheses.

Foods and nutrition, b/w, 11 min.; 'Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica Films, Wilmette, Ill‘.

Vitamins, b/w, 14 min. (Medical Motion Pictures, Merck
Sharpe & Dohme, West Point, Pa.)

Vitamins and some deﬁciency diseases, color, 35 min.
(Lederle Laboratories, Pearl River, N.Y.)

Vitamins and your health, color, 20 min. (Eli Lilly CO., In-
dianapolis, Ind.)

 

Cooperation in Arctic Research

“Scientists of every nation will be welcome to
cooperate with any Arctic research activities under
NSF sponsorship,” William D. McElroy, director
of the National Science Foundation, said at an inter-
national symposium inaugurating a new building
at the Geophysical Institute, University of Alaska.

Discussing Arctic research policy and planned sci-
entiﬁc activities, he said that for polar scientists the
“critical question” today is how to encourage sincere
international cooperation in Arctic research. He an-
nounced plans for a project, developed recently by
US. and Canadian scientists, called Arctic Ice Dy-
namic Joint Experiment (AIDJEX). This will be a
concerted study of sea ice as an impediment to
shipping. Early concepts call for manned and un-
manned ice stations, submarines, and aircraft to map
100 km2 of ice, from which models will be developed
to use in predicting movement of the ice pack.

“The needs of science should not be used as an
excuse to defer action,” McElroy said. “But if the
northern regions are to be developed for man’s use,
that development must be discriminating. . . . Protec-
tion of the environment must go hand in hand with
development of the Arctic.” He added, “If man is to
move, operate, and settle in harmony with this
unique and fragile wilderness, additional informa-
tion about the terrestrial and marine environments
must be available to prevent irreversible harm.”

 




Attitudes Toward Animals

CHRISTINE STEVENS, President, Animal Welfare Institute

Teachers of biology in secondary schools are often
asked to help students perform surgical or other
painful experiments on animals. Such requests usual-
ly stem from press reports of organ transplants,
space journeys, and similarly dramatic occurrences
in science that have struck a young, impressionable
mind with a wish to imitate. There are more tangible
inducements, too. Cash prizes, free trips, and other
emoluments are offered for science-fair projects that
have received "little or no scrutiny from the humane
point of view. The current situation has become so
serious that the National Society for Medical Re-
search (NSMR) recently issued a revised set of
guiding principles drafted by representatives of nine
national scientiﬁc societies. The principles are based
on a reconsideration of the 1959 and 1968 versions,
neither of which had succeeded in preventing grue-
some abuse of animals by untrained youths.

“Guideline” Weaknesses

The Animal Welfare Institute (headquarters:
New York City) welcomes the tightening of the
guiding principles as a step in the right direction
but cannot endorse them. The View of one of the
organizations that took part in writing the new
draft is worth quoting. An editorial by D. A. Price
in the October 1, 1969, issue of The Journal of the
American Veterinary Medical Association states in
part:

Will the revised “Guiding Principles” discourage
unacceptable experimental use of animals by secon-
dary school children? Hopefully, they will, but much
depends on the “qualiﬁed adult supervisor” and the
“biomedical scientist” whose judgment and attitudes
are the only effective deterrent, under the “Guiding

Principles,” to venturesome students who would re-
move organs or disﬁgure mice, rabbits, or even dogs,
and expect the animals to survive. The NSMR pro-
vides a highly useful framework for group action by
scientiﬁc organizations interested in the experimental
use of animals. Especially commendable has been
NSMR’s expressed intention to review the “Guiding
Principles” periodically and revise them when neces-
sary.

Dr. Price also points out that “without restrictive
guidelines and informed supervision, some students
would attempt survival surgery on the most readily
available species, little realizing or caring how ill-
equipped they are to perform such procedures with~
out training in anatomy, surgical technique, pharma-
cology, microbiology, and other disciplines which
contribute to the sum total of a surgeon’s compe-
tence.” In fact, students from age 12 onwards have
attempted such surgery, and they have won prizes
for it and received publicity, money, certiﬁcates, and
praise.

Too often, the genuinely sound scientiﬁc work by
young people has been passed over by science-fair
judges who are impressed by theatricality more
than by intellectual achievement.

It is unfortunate, too, that a medical degree does
not necessarily qualify a person as an educator.
Not even parenthood can guarantee his good judg-
ment of character development in the child. A start-
ling example recently publicized in an Animal Wel-
fare Institute Information Report involved a little
sixth-grade girl whose physician father helped her
to win a “Certiﬁcate of Merit” by doing brain
surgery on rats and watching them die—while she
recorded in a large, childish hand their ﬁnal

moments.

77

 




 

Rachel Carson, who gave profound thought to
this subject, wrote:

To the extent that it is ever necessary to put cer-
tain questions to nature by placing unnatural re-
straints upon living creatures or by subjecting them
to unnatural conditions or to changes in their bodily
structure, this is a task for the mature scientist. It is
essential that the beginning student should ﬁrst be-
come acquainted with the true meaning of his sub-
ject through observing the lives of creatures in their
relation to each other and to their environment. To
begin by asking him to observe artiﬁcial conditions
is to create in his mind distorted conceptions and to
thwart the development of his natural emotional re-
sponse to the mysteries of the life stream of which
he is a part.

Primary Considerations

What are the primary considerations of the high
school biology teacher? And how do they relate to
youthful demands to conduct animal experiments
for which neither the student nor the teacher is
qualiﬁed?

1. High school students should grasp the mean-
ing of the scientiﬁc method, with its rejection of
prejudice and of information which can be demon-
strated to be wrong. This essential concept is more
likely to be confused than advanced by premature
attempts at destroying the perfection of the whole
animal.

2. High school students should understand the
importance of advanced studies in the different
scientiﬁc disciplines. They should not be encouraged
to suppose that hit-or-miss methods constitute sound
scientiﬁc inquiry or that brief survival of an animal
following amateur surgery is an achievement.

3. In learning to think in biological terms and
to appreciate the complexity of life functions, the
feelings of living animals should be stressed. The
biologist who has no empathy with the subjects of
his studies is impoverished by his insensitiveness.
The average student who is not continuing into a
biological career is hardened and made less humane
if his early studies hurt or terrorize animals.

4. The side effects of biological instruction re-
quire careful consideration. They may have a dan-
gerous relevance to contemporary violence, which
is becoming more sadistic in character as gratuitous
beatings, torturings, and killings of people and ani-
mals become more common in lower and lower age—
groups. Such youthful tendencies must cause all
educators, regardless of their particular subject,
the gravest concern; but they relate most closely to
studies in which a choice must be made as to wheth-
er pain, fear, and death may be inﬂicted on a captive
animal for no purpose greater than the presumed
education of the student. The quality of mercy is
no less admirable now than it was in Shakespeare’s
time, and it is more desperately needed in a world
of crowded populations and intense technological
power. Thus the biology teacher has a special duty

78 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER, FEBRUARY, 1970

and responsibility to teach kindness, gentleness, and
modesty as he teaches ways of studying living forms.

To break down and analyze is only one form of
study. Careful observation, accurate description,
precise measurement, overall grasp of the problem,
and, most importantly, the ability to imagine and
form concepts—all these are vital objectives for
students.

Cruelty by Imitation—with Help

Mere slavish imitation of adult scientists in the
news cheapens the objectives and the means of
scientiﬁc inquiry. Furthermore, if the student ob-
tains the eXtensive aid that immediate supervision
by a trained biological scientist often confers, he
obtains an unfair advantage over other students
competing for prizes in the fair, and the question
of who has actually done the project—a question
Which plagues many thoughtful biology teachers
and science fair judges—clouds whatever success
the project attains.

In a recent case, a girl won a free trip to Washing-
ton and $250 for a project in which she starved
blinded sparrows to death. She begged off, when
criticized for cruelty, by claiming that her whole
project was nothing but a description of work she
had seen done while on a National Science Founda-
tion grant at the University of Texas. The question
of whether she was guilty of cruelty, plagiarism, or
deliberate misrepresentation in order to win a prize
remains unresolved.

The Scientiﬁc Committee of the Animal Welfare
Institute in a recerit communication to biologists
stated:

Experiments involving pain to animals have no
place outside legitimate programs for acquisition of
new information or in bona ﬁde research institutions
and places of higher learning. It is indefensible to
hurt or kill animals in the name of scientiﬁc inquiry
when no knowledge or skill contributing to human
or animal welfare or safety is gained thereby. Ele-
mentary and secondary school “experimentation”
does not meet these criteria. Furthermore, this type
of exercise can damage the young student’s emotional
deveIOpment by teaching him to rationalize and con-
done the unjustiﬁed inﬂicting of pain; it can blunt
his intellectual development by giving a false im-
pression of the meaning of scientiﬁc research.

Two Clear and Simple Rules

Two rules, whose brevity and simplicity leave no
room for doubt and confusion in the mind of student
or teacher, have been widely accepted by teachers
seeking clear guidelines or their students. At meet-
ings of the National Association of Biology Teachers,
the National Science Teachers Association, the
American Animal Hospital Association, and the
American Veterinary Medical Association, the Ani-
mal Welfare Institute has presented booth exhibits
at which manuals free to teachers were distributed,
together with these rules. The great majority of
teachers and veterinarians who discussed them

 




agreed with the concept they express: the avoidance
of any noxious procedure, rather than attempts at
limiting such procedures through clauses requiring
more or less close, more-or less well-qualiﬁed super-
vision.

The supervision clauses in guidelines has not
stopped cruel projects by teenagers in the past.
Though we welcome any move to limit the amount
and degree of pain inﬂiction, nevertheless, we be-
lieve high school biology teachers would be better
advised to set the following two rules for their
students:

1. Animals being observed by students must al-
ways be maintained in the maximum possible con-
dition of health, comfort, and well-being.

2. N o vertebrate animal used in primary or secon-
dary school teaching may be subjected to any ex-
periment or procedure which interferes with its
normal health or causes it pain or distress.

If these rules are followed in classroom teaching
and announced for use in science fairs, cruelty can
be eliminated from high school classes and projects
without in any way reducing scientiﬁc thinking or
the development of the best in young potential
biologists.

Examples of a Double Standard

Contrast the projects of two science-fair winners,
both of whose projects reached the stage of exhibi-
tion at an international fair:

1. A 17—year-old did extensive tissue-culture stu-
dies in order to determine “Viral Effects on Speciﬁc
Bovine Fetus Cells in Vitro.” His paper demonstrat-
ed the thorough manner in which he had studied
tissue-culture methods, with careful and accurate
measurements clearly stated, and his ability to draw
conclusions from his work.

2. An 18-year-old had been doing brain surgery
on squirrel monkeys for four years and hoped to
do one of his operations before television cameras
at the science fair. (This was prevented by invoking
a state law requiring that animal experimentation
be conducted only in licensed institutions.) During
the fair, one of the animals that had previously
been subjected to his amateur surgical efforts died
of infection caused by the surgery, and the necropsy
carried out at Michigan State Veterinary College
showed the neglect and bungled efforts to implant
electrodes in holes the youth had bored in the
animal’s skull. This was the 25th squirrel monkey

to go under his scalpel. He had had advice and
“supervision” by doctors at the University of Miss-
issippi medical school.

The ﬁrst project conformed to the Animal Wel-
fare Institute rules. The second met the standards
of the guiding principles in effect at the fair.
Whether such projects will continue under the June
1969 guiding principles remains to be seen.

Humane Alternatives in Biology

The teaching of biology has become‘ more and
more important as advancing technology changes
radically the conditions under which people live.
It is essential that high school graduates have a
sound grasp of biological principles, including suf-
ﬁcient schooling in ecology and an understanding
of the earth as a closed system that must live or
die with the waste products of existing human
societies. As conservation and the struggle against
massive pollution come rapidly to the forefront of
human concerns, a humane attitude toward biology
teaching becomes increasingly necessary. The wise
biology teacher will help his students to appreciate
to the fullest extent the variety of life forms, their
unique qualities, their beauty and appropriateness
to the environment in which they 'thriv‘e. Many
animals and plants are threatened as never before;
and for future biologists the disappearence of species
is a form of robbery. Every serious teacher of
biology has a stake in the preservation of species,
for if the biological sciences are to advance broadly
the magniﬁcent abundance and the superb quality
of living things must be maintained.

Biology should be true to its own principles.
Ancient prejudices against animals have no place
in biology teaching. To mistreat them or to permit
them to be mistreated because they are “only ani-
mals” suggests that the most elementary biological
facts have not been mastered.

Anthropomorphism has led to some comic errors
in past centuries, but 20th-century thought has
been more often plagued with extreme forms of
anti-anthropomorphism. This attitude has stultiﬁed
animal psychology—making it self—conscious and
rigid in phraseology and experimental design. New
knowledge was nearly impossible to obtain until
ethologists entered the ﬁeld, with their observations
obtained far from the little cages with electriﬁed
grids that were expected to explain why animals
behave as they do.

 

ATTITUDES TOWARD ANlMALS 79

 




Canada’s Experience

With Student Use

Of Living Animals

H. C. ROWSELL

ALTHOUGH CANADA ENCOMPASSES a large geographic
area, its population in comparison with the United
States is relatively small: 22 million people. These
people live for the most part in a very narrow band
of territory across the southern part of Canada,
adjacent to the border of the United States. Ap-
proximately 25% of the Canadian population lives
in southern Ontario, the border of the Great Lakes.

Throughout Canada much of our farm population
has moved to the cities, and we are becoming a
largely urban community, as in the United States.

This increasing urbanization in Canada and the
United States brings with it not only social or eco-
nomic problems but also ecologic and ethologic a1-
terations. This urbanization may have an effect on
the acceptance and understanding of other living
creatures by young people, who become exposed
only to the human animal.

Loss of Kinship with Animals

Formerly it was commonplace for a child to have
a farmer friend, and a regular visit to the farm
would at least expose'the child to animal life. Sim-
ilarly, a walk in the forest would reveal much about
the living creatures in their wild state. Unfortunate—
ly, today all animal species are becoming more and
more difﬁcult for the growing child to develop per-
sonal associations with. One cannot argue, however,
that today’s children are not well informed about
some species of animals, which are portrayed on
television and in the movies. Unfortunately, this is
not the same as holding, handling, or seeing with
one’s own eyes the living animal.

There is ample evidence to support the claim that
people of the present generation have forgotten
they have a responsibility to animals, which they
dominate. Man has the ability to destroy all living

creatures—including man—and in some situations
has already exhibited this ability by eliminating or
endangering many species of animals.

This lack of responsibility is a reality among our
pet, or companion, animals. Today, throughout the
world—Canada and the United States not exclud-
ed—there is a pet population explosion, which pro-
vides clear evidence of the irresponsibility of the
human race to the animals that have been selected
as companion animals. It is estimated in the United
States that some 15 million unwanted dogs and cats
are killed annually. In Canada it is not unusual in
the city of Montreal for 300 unwanted dogs and cats
to. be destroyed daily. Los Angeles reports it de-
strOys more than 300,000 unwanted dogs and cats
annually. This excessive proliferation of unwanted
animals causes unnecessary hardships through the
development of disease, inadequate nutrition, and
parasite infestation in companion animals forced to
live a day-to-day existence.

Further evidence of our lack of understanding of
responsibility to our dogs and cats is evidenced by
the tremendous backlash that many communities are
experiencing because irresponsible pet-owners allow
their dogs to defecate, urinate, destroy, bark, and
otherwise cause annoyance in the neighborhoods in
which they reside. Such animals are often exposed

.to rocks thrown by angry home-owners, struck by

sticks, or even in some cases maliciously and pain-
fully destroyed. This backlash against pet-ownership
may result in an even more dreadful situation: a
petless society, which would have serious ramiﬁ-
cations. ‘

It is essential that there be some place where a
child can be taught the responsibility that the own-
ership of an animal demands. Surely this must be
the responsibility of the educational process in the
primary school and be carried on through pro-
grams in secondary schools. Students should be
taught about responsibility for maintaining the ani-
mal, feeding, watering, cleaning, adequate health
care, and the problems associated with disposing of
young animals if breeding occurs. It is essential that
the child learn his or her responsibility to the ani-
mal and to other human beings.

 

Harry C. Rowsell is executive director of

the Canadian Council on Animal Care, 151

Slater St., Ottawa, Ont. KlP 5H3. He is

also professor of pathology at the Univer-

sity of Ottawa. He received his D.V.M. and

D.V.P.H. degrees from the Ontario Veteri-

nary College and the University of Toronto,

and his Ph.D. from the University of Min-

nesota. In 1953—65 he taught at the OVC ’
and in 1965—67 at the University of Saskatchewan; mean-
while he conducted research, chieﬂy on hemostatic mech-
anisms and on the pathophysiology of euthanasia (more than
75 papers). In 1968 Dr. Rowsell became the ﬁrst executive
director of CCAC. Former chairman of the Canadian Veteri-
nary Medical Association committees on research and on
humane practices, since 1969 he has represented Canada
on the International Committee for Laboratory Animals. The
present paper was given at the 1973 NABT convention.

3|

 

 

 

 




 

Neglect of Pets

One of the most serious problems relating to pet
ownership is that which sometimes occurs among
many young people and adults as well: the posses-
sion of an animal or involvement with animals
turns out to be a fad or ﬂeeting proposition. There
is good evidence that some animals are bought as
status symbols. A few years ago in the city of Mon-
treal anteaters were popular as a status symbol
among many young folk. Similarly, it has been well
demonstrated that certain breeds of dogs—particu-
larly the larger breeds—are purchased because the
owner had a yearning since childhood for a German
Shepherd, a Great Dane, or a St. Bernard. Similarly,
it is well known that certain dogs have a degree of
opulence associated with their possession; examples
are the Afghan Hound and the Poodle. Once the
dog is purchased, the owner tires of it and also ﬁnds
himself incapable of house-breaking it, disciplining
it, or even caring for it. The animal then becomes a
cast-off. The humane thing would be to have the
animal put to sleep humanely, but, unfortunately,
the owner just turns the animal loose or takes it to
another community to be turned loose as a stray.

Similar situations exist with respect to the so-
called exotic animals; that is, animals that are usual-
ly not native to the country or found in the country
in the wild state. Many people attempt to domesti-
cate raccoons, skunks, ocelots, margays, and other
wild animals. They quickly find that they can-
not take care of the animal that has damaged the
house, bitten their friends or themselves, and in
general caused havoc. They often call upon the
veterinarian to take the teeth out, remove the claws,
or perform some other unnecessary operation, in
order to “acclimatize” the animal. In many cases
such animals die quickly, but not without a con-
siderable degree of pain and distress.

The exotic-animal situation has become such a
problem that both the American Veterinary Medi-
cal Association and the Canadian Veterinary Medi-
cal Association recently passed resolutions proposing
legislation to ban the sale of exotic animals as pets.

It is easy to continue to emphasize, and to pro-
vide evidence of, our lack of understanding of our
responsibility to animals. We see it in the fur in-
dustry and the livestock industry. We have for more
than 300 years continued to trap animals cruelly,
using the leg-hold, or steel-claw, trap. In the state of
Colorado, it is said, less than 1% of the trapping is
done by the bona ﬁde fur-trapper; the remainder is
hobby trapping, using the cruelest device available,
the leg-hold trap. Similarly, we have developed
methods of intensive livestock production that, in
many cases, demonstrate little concern for the nor-
mal behavior patterns of the animal.

These problems are observed in countries that
are said to have a high level of social development
and concern for living things.

Indifferent and irresponsible treatment of animals

32 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER. JANUARY l974

is a frequent characteristic of people who are igno-
rant or otherwise frustrated. The responsibility to,
and fair treatment of, animals is a standard by
which a country’s culture and degree of civilization
may be judged. Educational programs that fail to
guide its people continually towards more consid—
erate and humane treatment of animals are open to
criticism unless we are willing to accept moral and
behavioral bankruptcy by allowing human beings to
inflict distress and pain on animals, whether human
or nonhuman. We must accept the mantle of respon-
sibility to teach in our educational systems the re-
quirements for the proper care and use of animals
at all levels. Continued exploitation of our animals
without demonstrating the concern for their rights
as living creatures—rights we must establish, for
they have no way of knowing what their rights are
or how to ensure their recognition—means that man
will become the lowest of all animal forms, the
parasite.

There is no question that the school is a proper
place to teach children their responsibilities to the
animals they dominate.

Teaching with Animals

I have emphasized the need for teaching respon-
sibility and concern for living things. Naturally, this
is not the entire reason why animals should be used
in the classroom situation.

Studies involving living animals are essential in
an attempt to understand living processes; how-
ever, studies should lead to respect for all living
things. It is essential that the studies involving ani-
mals be designed to be at the level of comprehen-
sion and capability of the student who is observing
or is involved in the studies.

Studies involving living animals should embody
the basic biologic principle that one must learn to
“creep before one walks.” Unfortunately, many
studies involving experimental animals are at a level
of running before the student has learned the art of
balancing involved in creeping.

In studying the physical sciences or mathematics
the students must learn basic principles and formu-
las and be able to master relatively minor problems
through an understanding and application of basic
information. Why, then, in biology should we sug-
gest that students become involved in studying ab—
normal behavior and function before they clearly
understand normal function and behavior?

In order to become a research biomedical scien-
tist, a student is required to pass successfully (usu-
ally with high honors) through an undergraduate
program. Following successful completion of this
basic program, work in a laboratory at a graduate
level for a master’s or doctorate is prerequisite to
future involvement with experimental animals. In
many cases this period is followed by a postdoctoral
period of study and investigation. Basic to the de—
velopment of the research biomedical scientist is the




requirement for an understanding of normal function,
in order to understand the biologic and behavioral
characteristics of a variety of animal species.

Furthermore, we ask our scientists, after they
have fulﬁlled all of the prerequisites, to follow the
principle of using nonsentient and lower forms of
life whenever possible; and they are taught that,
when animals must be used, there is an obligation to
provide humane care and treatment and avoid un-
necessary use.

The scientiﬁc community in Canada emphasizes
that the care and use of animals for experimental
purposes should be based on the principle that pain
and discomfort should be avoided. It is recognized
that there are situations in which pain and discom-
fort may be experienced by an animal as a necessary
concomitant of the investigation. Such experiments
should be undertaken only when, on the basis of
expert opinion, there are reasonable expectations
that such studies will contribute to the ultimate en-
hancement of the knowledge of life. The degree of
pain should never exceed that justiﬁed by the hu-
manitarian importance of the problem to be solved
by the experimental study. It is also emphasized
that it is not only in the experimental situation that
pain must be avoided, for animals suffer if improp-
erly housed or handled. It is known that animals
respond in a positive manner to gentle handling and
considerate attention.

The student at the preuniversity level has a long
way to go in order to be at the level we demand of
the research scientist. Therefore it must be assumed
that such students at this level are at the crawling
stage and not the walking stage in their involve-
ment with experimental animals.

The recognition of the importance of under-
standing normal function and behavior and the
above-mentioned requirements for the qualiﬁed and
trained biomedical scientist who is using experi-
mental animals emphasizes the fact that students at
the preuniversity level should not be involved in
studies that would subject the animal to pain or
distinct discomfort or interfere with its health.

Nature of Studies Involving Animals

The species of animals will depend upon the cir-
cumstances existing in the school and the academic
level of the class.

Even for the child in early primary grades animals
can be brought to the school on selected occasions
for a show-and-tell period. It is important in such
situations, even at this early level, that the teacher
understand the compatibility of the animals being
brought in. They must ensure that antagonistic
species are not brought at the same time. When it
comes to bringing animals into the classroom per-
manently, teachers should establish that there will
be care available for the animals seven days a week,
every day of the month, 365 days a year. This may
create problems, for there are many parents who do

not appreciate the dispatch of animals to their
homes for a weekend or holiday period, when
access to the school may be prohibited to the teacher
and to the student.

Additionally it is essential that the teacher under-
stand that certain animals can create certain dan-
ders or discharges, which may sensitize some
children in the classroom. The importance in under-
standing the association of allergies with animals is
increasing and has many complex facets.

The value of the lower orders, such as planarians,
butterflies, spiders, crayﬁsh, amphibians, and rep-
tiles, should not be overlooked. All of these living
creatures can help children to understand the func-
tion of living things; and all require a certain
degree of care and knowledge, in order to provide
an optimal environment.

Aquaria housing a variety of ﬁsh can be of ex-
treme value. It is of speciﬁc interest to observe ﬁsh
that reproduce either by spawning or by giving
birth to living young.

The ideal situation is for a school to provide a
room or space for a small Vivarium, which can be
supervised by a teacher and cared for by some of
the junior and senior students. In this area, uniform
caging should be provided, of a type that provides
maximum safety and comfort for the animals. The
animals can be observed in this situation or, in
speciﬁc instances, can be taken into the classroom
for varying periods of time.

Teachers should encourage students to observe
wild animals in nature, and regular ﬁeld trips should
be a part of their program. Wild animals have no
place in the classroom and should only be observed
under natural conditions. This includes observations
at the zoologic garden. It is not satisfactory for stu-
dents to observe animals that are improperly caged,
as is the case in many of the roadside zoos and in
small, improperly designed zoologic gardens. Stu-
dents should be aware that the removal of animals
from nature is unnecessary and can create cruel
situations, particularly when animals removed from
the wild state become dependent upon human beings
for their existence. Captivity can change certain
behavioral patterns; when the animals are returned
to their natural environment they ﬁnd adaptation a
painful and distressing experience, often resulting
in death.

It has been emphasized that studies at the pre-
university level should not involve pain or distinct
discomfort or interfere with the animal’s health. For
example, it is important that students understand
why rodents have developed as “gnawers,” and the
provision of feed that does not require gnawing can
be contrasted with a food that does require them to
use their normal anatomic structures. Also, students
can observe, by means of various dyes or colored
beads, the length of time it takes for food to pass
through the digestive tract. For suggestions as to
acceptable experiments see the accompanying table.

There are numerous good reference books on ani-

CANADA’S EXPERIENCE 33

 




 

mal care and experimentation. However, the teacher
should be aware that there are certain publications
that contain many useful studies but also contain
those that can cause distress to the experimental
animal; therefore, the teacher must be selective.

Problems with Science Fairs

Popular-magazine articles on medical science
and the popular television programs, such as “The
Bold Ones” and “Medical Center,” which make re-
search appear exciting and spectacular have had
their inﬂuence on Canadian students in the de-
sign of projects for science fairs. The growth of
extracurricular science programs for the preuniver-
sity level has had its main increase in the develop-
ment of the science fair. Today in Canada there are
numerous regional science fairs in speciﬁc geo-
graphic areas. In 1973, 38 regional science fairs had
afﬁliated with the Canada-wide Science Fair, spon-
sored by the Youth Science Foundation. Across
Canada more than 25,000 students are engaged in
science-fair projects, with approximately 200 par-
ticipating in the Canada-wide Science Fair. The
latter is held annually in various cities throughout
Canada, both in the east and the west. Initially, the
science-fair program developed with few or no
guidelines. When guidelines evolved with reference
to entrance requirements and judging standards,
there was recognized by the Youth Science Founda-
tion a need for methods to improve the experimen-
tal studies involving animals in the science fair.

As was mentioned above, the science-fair project
involving animals often had not been based on sci-
entiﬁc methodology; rather, it frequently was con-
ceived by the student who had read some article in
the popular press or had seen an oversimpliﬁcation
of science on television. In most cases the students
do not consult with experienced individuals in the
ﬁeld, or they ﬁnd that the science teacher is inacces-
sible or without adequate knowledge concerning the
project.

Each year, after the science-fair program had
been completed, numerous editorials or articles
would appear inthe press. Some of the projects
resulted in an extremely bad press; for example,
editorials appeared in the Hamilton Spectator, fol-
lowing the 1970 science fair, that described an ex-
periment in which rats were exposed to nail-polish
remover until they died as a result of liver and bone
marrow destruction. The student engaged in this
project was unable to recognize the cause of death.
Additionally, it is easy to recognize that proper
concern for teaching the principles of scientiﬁc in-
vestigation are not met by students carrying out
heart transplants in rabbits when they do not under-
stand the complexities of tissue rejection and other
immune reactions. Similarly, the scientiﬁc validity
must be questioned in a project where the students
wish to tie off the pancreatic duct in rabbits to
produce diabetes, when they do not havean under-

34 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER, JANUARY I974

standing of the production of insulin or the intri-

‘cacies of glucose metabolism.

There were the students who wished to feed
thyroid-depressing chemicals to intact and hypo-
physectomized rats but had inadequate knowledge
of endocrine interaction. They selected their study
from a rejected textbook of radioisotope laboratory
exercises, which at the university level had been
found to have poor replication of valid results.

Then there was the student who believed that,
by feeding female animals estrogens, we could
shorten the age of reproduction and thereby increase
the productivity of the animal to save the world
from a food shortage. The experimental animal was
the mouse, but the principle could apply to the cow.
Unfortunately, the young man did not know that
bone development of the animal is important. It is
common knowledge among veterinarians and live-
stock-owners that immature heifers often do not
conceive; and, if they do, difﬁcult birth occurs—the
result being a dead calf or a dead mother.

Thus it is essential that studies at this level be
designed at the level of comprehension of the stu-
dent. The need to recognize this fact is emphasized
time and time again as one discusses with students
undertaking projects, such as those listed above,
how far they are out of their depth and beyond
their level of comprehension. Thus the student in-
volved in such projects gets an invalid idea of what
science and research are all about.

It was evident that guiding principles for the use
of experimental animals at the preuniversity level
were necessary. Over a ﬁve-year period several dif-
ferent sets of guiding principles have been developed.
Initially it was proposed that certain projects in-
volving vertebrates could be undertaken if under
the supervision of an expert in that ﬁeld of research.
Unfortunately, experience over the years proved
that students did not seek the required expert su-
pervision; instead, they proceeded on their own with
projects well beyond their level of comprehension.
The Youth Science Foundation had developed a list
of scientists in the Canadian Federation of Biologi-
cal Societies who had indicated a willingness to
assist students wishing to undertake science-fair
projects. The students failed to contact the experts,
even when given the names, addresses, and phone
numbers.

These experiences led to changes in the guiding
principles. The principles presently used will con-
tinue to be scrutinized and changed as experience
in application demands.

To promote the proper use of animals at the
preuniversity level, regional-science-fair animal-care
committees have been established. All students con-
templating a project involving living vertebrate ani-
mals must complete a questionnaire describing,
among other things, the purpose of the experimental
study and the procedures that are to be carried out.
The animal-care committee receives the question-
naire and decides whether or not the experiments

 




 

fall within the requirements of the guidelines. If
they do, they issue an afﬁdavit of approval. The stu-
dents, on receipt of the afﬁdavit of approval, are not
permitted to change any of their experimental pro-
cedures without prior approval of the committee.
Furthermore, the affidavit of approval must be shown
each time the project is exhibited.

In Ontario, the Animals for Research Act is
enforced by veterinarians from the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food. This afﬁdavit of approval is
accepted by inspectors of the Veterinary Service
Branch as evidence that the project falls within the
requirements and regulations of the act, ensuring
there is no unnecessary pain or distress. An
afﬁdavit of approval is mandatory for all partici-
pants exhibiting living vertebrate animals in the
Canada-wide Science Fair, no matter what part of
the country they come from.

Prizes at Science Fairs

The awarding of prizes for spectacular projects
rather than projects that have scientiﬁc merit is
deplorable.

The Youth Science Foundation, recognizing the
trend toward prizes for the spectacular, developed a
Canadian code of judging principles and standards
for use at the Canada-wide Science Fair and the
affiliated regional science fairs. At the same time,
there was a look at the nature of the awards. The
Youth Science Foundation established the principle
that its own awards would be to the most meritorious
and that the amount of prize money would be limit-
ed to no more than $75 for first place in the various
categories. Similarly, other organizations have been
encouraged to limit the amount of prize money
awarded to participants. Judging committees are
also informed that it is undesirable to have one in-
dividual or a few individuals walk off with all of
the prizes.

It is important that we recognize that the princi-
ple of awarding prizes for scientific studies may be
an incorrect approach in developing cooperation and
collaboration among future scientists. The conduct
of research should be undertaken in order to gain
information and knowledge for the general well-
being of animals or human beings; that is, as a con-
tribution of knowledge. The philosophy of financial
reward is perhaps invalid if we are talking about
the encouragement of youth in science.

The Canadian Veterinary Medical Association, in

order to emphasize its concern for all living things,
established a prize of $50 for the project in the
Canada-wide Science Fair that is deemed, on the
basis of the judgment of members of the veterinary
profession, to fulﬁll the criteria exemplifying hu-
mane care and scientiﬁc use of animal resources.

The development of guidelines and the establish-
ment of animal-care committees has not resulted in
a decrease in the number of projects involving
vertebrate animals; instead, it has increased the
number of projects involving either vertebrate or
invertebrate species. At the last three Canada-wide
Science Fairs the majority of the students expressed
their endorsement of the guiding principles and the
procedures required for projects involving verte-
brate animals. They said that such guidelines were
necessary and an essential ingredient for students
hoping to understand the requirements of good sci-
entific investigation. The students often expressed
disagreement with some studies that did not appear
to fall within the guidelines. N0 students expressed
the opinion that they felt limited or inhibited in
undertaking projects involving vertebrate animals
from which they could derive satisfactory informa-
tion capable of encouraging them in future studies
in the biologic sciences.

It is important to note that one student, who had
previously gained notoriety at an early age for
studies involving cancer in mice—studies that had
received Canada-wide television and newspaper cov-
erage—had, through encouragement of the Youth
Science Foundation Animal-Care Committee, under-
taken additional biologic studies in university lab-
oratories during the summer period. After this expo-
sure the student presented a project involving Pla-
na'ria at the Canada-wide Science Fair, and he em-
phasized that he should never have been allowed to
undertake the studies on cancer in mice, because of
his lack of comprehension of the cancer problem and
the relationship to the living animal.

Further Information

Copies of “Guiding Principles for Animal Experi-
mentation at the Preuniversity Level” and “Sources
of Information on Animal Care and Experimenta-
tion” are available from the Canadian Council on
Animal Care or the Youth Science Foundation
Animal—Care Committee. Both organizations are lo-
cated at 151 Slater St., Ottawa, Ont., Canada
K1P 5H3.

 

 




Reprinted from the JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN VETERINARY MEDICAL ASSOCIATION,
. Vol. 168, No. 6, Pages: 513-517
© American Veterinary Medical Association, 1976. All Rights Reserved.

Beyond “Adequate Veterinary Care”

Marjorie Anchel, PhD

No PROFESSION likes to be told what to do; and there is
some justiﬁcation for this attitude. No one knows as much
about the problems and requirements of a profession as those
who practice it. Yet, an outsider’s View can be of value.
It has been pointed out that interaction of the roles of In-

Dr. Anchel is senior chemist and administrator of the laboratory, the New
York Botanical Garden, Bronx, NY 10458.

March l5. I976

sider and Outsider is important in seeking truth.8 This
same idea was expressed almost 200 years ago"’:

“Oh wad some power the giftie gie us
to see oursels as others see us!
It wad frae monie a blunder free us
An’ foolish notion.”

From these preliminary remarks, you probably have sur-

5|3

 




 

mised that I am an Outsider. I am not a veterinarian. The
views I am going to present are those of an Outsider.

First, I would like to outline very brieﬂy the background
of the problem of providing adequate veterinary care for
laboratory animals.

Before passage of the Animal Welfare Act of 1966
(PL 89—544), research facilities using experimental an-
imals were not required to have an attending veterinarian;
nor were any minimum standards set by an outside group,
or self enforced. It is true that many, if not most, labora—
tories had a set of regulations posted on the wall, to which
about as much attention was paid as to the “No Smoking”
signs posted there by the ﬁre department.

The idea of outside “interference” or “policing” was
anathema to most experimenters-—or perhaps, more ac-
curately, to those whose views on the subject could be
heard. I add this qualiﬁcation because in the early 1960’s
it was essentially impossible for a scientist to have a letter
favoring outside regulation published in any scientiﬁc
journal. And publication in the public press would most
often risk the wrath, and even the retaliation, of admin-
istrators. This symposium testiﬁes to the fact that the
climate is changing.

The Animal Welfare Act of 1966 provided for certain
aspects of the care of experimental animals, to insure that
they would receive humane treatment. The US Department
of Agriculture (USDA) was designated as the administra-
tive agent. Accordingly, the Department has set minimum
standards, including the provision of “adequate veterinary
care under the supervision of a veterinarian.”5 We now
face the problem of deﬁning “adequate veterinary care.”
Adequate veterinary care should be interpreted not only in
the light of the professional knowledge of the veterinarian,
but also in the light of the intent of the Animal Welfare
Act. If this is done, veterinarians will have the opportunity
to include humane treatment as part of adequate veterinary
care of laboratory animals. Many of these animals will not
otherwise have the beneﬁt of such care.

Traditionally, much of the work of veterinarians is
directed toward the care of animals mainly as this care
serves man. The Veterinarian’s Oath seems to be mostly
for the beneﬁt of peOple. “Relief of animal suffering” is
mentioned, but merely as one of the means toward an end,
which is “. . . to use my scientiﬁc knowledge and skill for
the beneﬁt of society.”11 The Animal Welfare Act, on the
other hand, explicitly states as its purpose, “. . . to insure
that certain animals intended for use in research facilities
are provided humane care and treatment.” The regulations
promulgated by the USDA are to implement this purpose.
The term “adequate veterinary care” in this context must
be interpreted as care designed to insure humane treatment
of experimental animals. It does not mean care designed
to help society, or the experimenter, or even to promote
research. It means care designed to help the experimental
animal.

I believe that many veterinarians will welcome the op-
portunity provided by the mandate of this Act to be of such
help to laboratory animals. But it is quite true that the
veterinarian, hired as he is by the institution and not by
the animals, often will ﬁnd himself in a delicate position.
I once saw, on the wall of a veterinarian’s ofﬁce, a doc-
ument, “Veterinarian’s Creed,” that contains an admonition
not only generally valid, but peculiarly appropriate to this
dilemma. The veterinarian is admonished “. . . to value
character more highly than reputation, and truth above
popularity.”3 The veterinarian will, at times, have to stand
up to the research worker and insist on decent regard for
the welfare of the animal under experiment. Here, the
veterinarians from the USDA can be of help. These vet-

5|4

erinarians, like those hired by the institution, have their
primary responsibility to their patlents. But unlike those
hired by the institution, they answer to the enforcmg
agency (USDA) and not to users of animals. They can
offer ﬁrm backing and support to the veterinarians 1ns1st1ng
on proper, but perhaps unpopular, procedures.

The USDA veterinarians Will not always have the
problem of supporting a humane veterinarian—a veter-
inarian trying to provide humane care—agalnst the Opposi-
tion of those with whom he works. There are other situa-
tions he will be called on to deal with. There undoubtedly
will be some institutional veterinarians who not only should
not be supported but who will bear careful watching. On
the other hand, in some instances at least, all those involved
will agree on proper standards. But regardless of the par-
ticular situation that applies, the veterinarian must have
the courage—and it will require courage—~-to insist on
standards that are absolute, and not relative to the pres-
sures from within any institution. These standards should
be high—sufficiently high so that care of the laboratory
animal will compare favorably with that accorded the
owned animal, in the best veterinary practice.

Adequate veterinary care for laboratory animals involves
a number of considerations besides those that apply to
animals with homes. I would like to discuss these more
speciﬁcally.

Laboratory animal care has several aspects. One is an-
alogous to public health medicine. The importance of this
aspect has been generally recognized, and it has been given
considerable attention. The desirability of control of con-
tagious disease in laboratory animals has never been con-
troversial, and there is no need to discuss it. Another aspect
has to do with the well-being of the individual animal as it
affects the research for which the animal is being used. The
fact that the interests of the animal and that of research
converge was well expressed by workers who remarked
that, “. . . the wages of inhumanity” are “paid in ambiguous
or otherwise unsatisfactory experimental results.””’ As im-
portant as this is, it is not this aspect either that I wish to
discuss. I would like to examine the term “adequate veter-
inary care” from the point of view of humaneneSS—bf min-
imizing distress in the laboratory animal.

A competent and concerned physician recognizes that
adequate medical care includes attention not only to the
physical health but also to the emotional well—being of his
patients. With laboratory animals there has been a tendency
to deﬁne the adequacy of care purely in terms of its effects
on physical health. Humane care and treatment, in the
spirit of the Animal Welfare Act, surely includes the main—
tenance of a healthy emotional state, and increasing atten—
tion is being paid to this aspect. Unfortunately, this atten—
tion is expressed, in large part, in work devoted to supposed
biochemical manifestations of emotional well—being. I do
not think that these measurements are relevant. Happiness
orounhappiness cannot be determined by measurement of
urinary ketosteroids. But it can be perceived by all sensi-
tive human beings. In other words, in dogs, the up and
dOWH'SWng 0f urinary ketosteroids is of less importance
than IS the left and right swing of the tail.

.What are the requirements for the well—being of the
animal? Bas1cally, they are the same as for a human being
—secur1ty, a measure of freedom, trust and affection, and
freedom from pain and distress. For the animal in a home,
these reqllll‘ennents are usually satisﬁed naturally. For
laboratory anlmals, some of the requirements at least can
be met by a pleasant environment, by contact with others
of the same species, by care which reﬂects the understand-
mg, the concern, and the affection of the human attendants,
and by constant vigilance to avoid distress as far as possible-

JAVMA. Vol I68. No- 6

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Provision of these essentials offers an appropriate frame
of reference in deciding on speciﬁc standards for housing,
for selection of personnel, and for relief of pain or a decision
for euthanasia. Let us examine the proposed rule making
by the USDA6 and some reactions to it, using this frame of
reference:

The proposals with regard to cage size and exercise
have elicited a number of widely different reactions:

The National Society for Medical Research (NSMR),
which has always resisted imposition of any but voluntary
standards, opposed even the earlier USDA proposals for
minimum cage size. They objected on the basis that no
changes were necessary, that they cost too much, and that
they would spell the end of research. The NSMR stated
more than 10 years ago—this was before the passage of the
Animal Welfare Act, before any standards were set—that
laboratory animals were, in their words, “more pampered
than pets.”12 For most laboratory animals this was, and
still is, nonsense. The NSMR further intimates that the
suggestion for improvement of housing for laboratory an-
imals is a plot of the antivivisectionists. Under the heading,
“Proposed Cage Standards Change Intolerable to Research,”
they state:10 “The individuals urging more spacious housing
for research animals are really not very sympathetic to
biomedical research, except that they do like the beneﬁts
which accrue through better health and longer life.” And
further along, in the same article, the statement appears
that: “Many have suggested that this is a well-orchestrated
campaign to impede research and teaching that depend on
dogs as the biological model.”

I do not think that most of the people here are un-
sympathetic to biomedical research. I do not think that
most of you believe that laboratory dogs are more pam-
pered than pets. It follows that this audience will not con-
sider that seeking to improve the condition of laboratory
dogs is simply a campaign to impede research. Accordingly,
it would not be of value to discuss the views of the NSMR.
I think we can look for a more constructive approach.

Another reaction to the proposed rules is that of a
committee of the Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources.
This committee has attempted a scientiﬁc analysis of the
USDA proposals. Their conclusions are contained in a
recently published report.7 On the question of mandatory
exercise, they point out, that: “. . . the lack of opportunity
to defecate over a period of several days has not caused
demonstrable adverse physiological effects on the animal
observed.”

It may be that this is true. It also may be, that we are
not smart enough to get the evidence, or to be perfectly
frank, that we are not trying to get the evidence. However,
these animals are used to obtain data that may be applied
to man. If this extrapolation is of any value whatsoever,
then to the same extent it must apply in reverse. And it
is very clear how one’s well-being is affected by not having
the Opportunity to defecate for several days. I must repeat
that what we are concerned with is the well—being of the
animal, insofar as we can ascertain it, and not with
“demonstrable adverse physiological effects.”

As to the proposed requirement that after 21 days of
conﬁnement, dogs must be released from the cage for 30
minutes each day for a minimum of 5 out of 7 days, the
committee comments that “. . . such release may reinforce
the psychological contentment of the dog . . .” but on the
basis that “the dog is an animal that readily adapts to
various environmental conditions,” the committee feels that:
“Having adapted to 21 continuous days of conﬁnement, it
is highly probable that sudden release may actually be
detrimental to his physiological as well as psychological
well-being.” (One could, of course, draw exactly the op-

March l5. I976

posite conclusion from the dog’s adaptability.) The report
continues: “Furthermore, limiting the required release to
5 out of 7 days, rather than establishing a uniform daily
pattern of experience, could possibly further compromise
the dog’s ability to adjust to a given environment.”

Again, there is some basis for this argument; but it is
the same basis as saying that a man should not have his
weekends free because it makes it so hard to return to work
on Monday. Although release for exercise may involve
solution of some problems, it is essential. For the animal’s
well-being, it would be better to have release from the
cage begin immediately and take place every day.

A few years ago, I attended a conference on this very
question of exercise for laboratory dogs. A frequent con-
tention was that there was no scientiﬁc evidence that re-
lease from the cage was necessary or even beneﬁcial, and
that, therefore, it should not be a requirement. As the
conference broke for lunch, and we were walking out, the
gentleman next to me, who had concurred in this contention,
remarked: “It’s sure good to get out and stretch your legs.
I couldn’t have stood it much longer.” ‘

The report of the Committee of the Institute for Labora-
tory Animal Resources continues with consideration of the
“overall results of exercising” and states that: “From a
physiological standpoint there is valid scientiﬁc evidence
that both blood pressure and plasma cortisol levels are
affected by the environmental change.” There is no argu-
ment with this statement. The report continues: “Measure-
ments of these parameters [that is, blood pressure and
plasma cortisol levels] would indicate that they are univer-
sally elevated when dogs are released from cages and sub-
ject to physical contact with their peers. It is agreed that
these are only 2 measurements of response to change in the
physical environment, but these at least do represent a
measureable reﬂection of stress.”

This statement, too, is true, but as everyone in this
audience must be aware, it is completely misleading. In
the context in which it is presented, it implies, without
actually saying so, that the biochemical symptoms of stress
result only from a disagreeable or undesirable stimulus.
One worker effectively dispelled this misconception, even
for the layman. He explains“: “From the point of View
of its stress-producing or stressor activity, it is immaterial
whether the agent or situation we face is pleasant or un-
pleasant; all that counts is the intensity of the demand for
readjustment or adaptation. The mother who is suddenly
told that her only son died in battle suffers a terrible mental
shock; if years later it turns out that the news was false
and the son unexpectedly walks into the room alive and
well, she experiences extreme joy. The speciﬁc results of
the 2 events, sorrow and joy, are completely different, in
fact opposite to each other, yet their stressor effect—the
nonspeciﬁc demand to readjust herself to an entirely new
situation—may be the same.”

We can add to this. We can tell from the woman’s
expression and her actions which is the good news and
which is bad. Measurements of changes in blood pressure
and in plasma cortisol levels not only would be unneces-
sary, but would be unsuitable criteria. In the same way,
it is quite clear from a dog’s behavior to which category of
stimulus release from a cage belongs.

It is difﬁcult for a scientist to accept that not everything
can be understood or measured on a scientiﬁc basis. Yet,
he will readily agree that appreciation of beauty, for ex-
ample, is subjective, or that an understanding of good and
bad is in large part intuitive. Can he really believe that
clinical measurements are a substitute for human sensi-
tivity in gauging emotions? In any event, this same person
has provided another statement that should help in the

SIS

 




 

particular situation we are discussing. He says“: “Certain
emotional factors, such as frustration, are particularly likely
to turn stress into distress, whereas in most instances, phys-
ical exercise has the opposite effect.”

A number of other arguments against larger cages, or
communal housing, are presented in the committee’s report.
Instead of controverting these, I would like to turn to a
more positive approach. What must we do to satisfy the
requirements for a laboratory animal’s well-being? More
speciﬁcally, how can we provide freedom, companionship,
affection, and relief of pain, so as to avoid distress?

The requirements were well set forth in a recent talk
before a joint branch meeting of the American Association
of Laboratory Animal Science.18 “It may be helpful to list
the basic principles which the Animal Welfare Institute
believes to be the most important in maintaining laboratory
dogs and cats: ample space, kindness, good food and water,
a comfortable resting place, companionship with compatible
conspeciﬁcs, veterinary attention including use of pain-
relieving drugs as needed, opportunity for exercise, sunlight,
fresh air, reasonable temperature control, and sanitation.”

Some of these requirements are not only not controver-
sial, they are self-evident and require no elaboration. Among
these are “good food and water, fresh air, reasonable tem-
perature control, and sanitation.” These are all physiologic
requirements. The requirement for sunlight is a little more
complex. The physiologic requirement for sunlight can be
supplied by other means. What are the emotional effects of
deprivation of sunlight? In man, they are variable. Some
can dowith a minimum and can live happily in artiﬁcially
lighted air-conditioned surroundingsfor most of their waking
hours. But there are very few who can endure prolonged
and complete deprivation. In Sweden, where some com-
panies have mines within the Arctic Circle, the effects are
well-known. Personnel are rotated (to plants further south)
so that they will not be subjected for long periods to the
continuous sunlessness of the Arctic winter, which has been
found in many to produce severe depression.

A number of other requirements listed16 are interrelated
and are part of the problem of housing already discussed.
These requirements include ample space, a comfortable
resting place, exercise, and companionship with compatible
conspeciﬁcs. This last should be further emphasized. Its
importance is known not only intuitively and from human
experience but also from observations in the wild of a
number of Species, including the wolf9 and the wild dog.17
For laboratory animals, for whom companionship with man
is very limited, companionship with conspeciﬁcs is more
important than for animals in the home.

One further need, which may be included under the
general requirements of housing, is the need for visual
stimulation. One of the most pathetic demonstrations of
this need was reported in the initial research with germ-
free monkeys. These animals would sacriﬁce food or
physical comfort to be able to see outside their enclosure
into the laboratOry.

The 2 remaining requirements are “kindness” and “vet—
erinary attention, including the use of pain-relieving drugs
as needed.” “Kindness” may be difficult to deﬁne, but it
is safe to say that it is a necessary component of humane
treatment. How can it be provided? To begin with, the
veterinarian in charge must like animals. A veterinarian
interested only in the scientiﬁc aspects of animal care
or whose concern is only how the animals can serve re-
search, no matter how well-trained or how experienced he
may be, is not likely to fulﬁll the requirements of “adequate
veterinary care” as it includes humane treatment.

A veterinarian who likes animals can do much to make
the lot of laboratory animals less unhappy. One of the most

5|6

effective ways in which he can do this is by a very careful
choice of personnel. The right sort of person was described
as?6 “Those who tend dogs and cats after surgery or other
potentially painful experimental procedures should. be sym-
pathetic nurses with a felt rapport w1th each 1nd1v1dual an-
imal patient. . . . It is not enough for an anlmal techmcian
to have been instructed in speciﬁc procedures relating to
the experiment. He must indeed have these techniques and
skills. He must understand what is required of him with
respect to sanitation and record—keeping. He must know
how to give an injection, how to adm1n1ster ﬂulds, how to
maintain body heat in an unconscious dog or cat. And, in
addition, he must feel for his patient and help his recovery
in a spirit of friendship.”

One of the major difficulties in obtaining pe0ple who
satisfy these requirements is that precisely those people
who are sensitive to animal suffering tend to avoid being
with dogs and cats that are in harsh, miserable surroundings.
The requirement for sensitive personnel responsive to the
animal’s needs is directly tied to the requirement for
pleasant surroundings.

Finally, there is the requirement for veterinary attention,
including the use of pain-relieving drugs. The assessment
of pain is notoriously difficult, and specialists in the ﬁeld are
most aware of this. There is general agreement, however,
on the fact that psychologic factors play an important role
in the interpretation of pain; that is, how it is actually
perceived, not by the onlooker but by the one affected.
The Pain Clinic of Emory University has put out a small
leaﬂet4 for its patients in which this relationship is ex-
pressed clearly and simply. A paragraph in this leaﬂet
reads: “A person’s interpretation of the information coming
in plays an important part in determining what the pain is
like. You may have observed, for example, that pain follow-
ing a blow on the back by someone in anger is different
from pain created by a blow of the same intensity incurred
while playing. This difference is related to a difference in
meaning attached to the information received.”

This is well put. What is its signiﬁcance for pain-relief
in experimental animals? It means that emotional well-
being, fostered by pleasant surroundings and sympathetic
care, may reduce the degree of distress resulting from
physical pain. It does not mean, however, that insuring
emotional well-being is a substitute for relief of pain.
Since, even with the best care, experimental animals are
probably apprehensive, special attention should be paid to
relief of pain after potentially pain-producing procedures,
as well as to administration of tranquilizers before such
procedures.

The Animal Welfare Institute has published a booklet,
in which the section on “The Use of Pre- and Post-Operative
Analgesics in Experimental Medicine” was prepared by
the executive director of the Canadian Council on Animal
Care. It is essentially identical to the material in a booklet
put out by the Council: Care of Experimental Animals, A
Guide for Canada. An enlarged edition of the Canadian
book will appear early in 1976 and will include a Chapter
on Restraint and Anesthesia for Laboratory Animals.18 1
would like to quote one paragraph of this chapter. Dis-
cussing problems of anesthesia for the laboratory animal,
it says: “The ﬁrst consideration is the psychological and
physiological welfare of the animal. It is understood that
all animals used for experimental procedures must be
treated in a humane manner. Toward this end, the anes—
theSiOlogist has a major reSponsibility in the control of
fear, pain and distress in experimental animals through the
apprOpriate use of sedatives, analgesics, and general anes-
thetic agents. The anesthetic techniques used for expe-
rimental animals must be in line with the highest standards

JAVMA. Vol I68. No- 6




5a.

of modern veterinary medical practice. Anything less than
this cannot be justiﬁed on humane grounds.”

I have tried to present ways in which the veterinarian
not only by his.know1edge and skill but also by his gen:
uine concern w1th the total needs of the experimental
animal, can provide “adequate veterinary care.”

In closing, I repeat that I have presented the views of
an Outsider, since I am not a veterinarian. I may have
conveyed the impression that many of the arguments
against the USDA’S proposals seem to be motivated by
considerations of expediency rather than humaneness. I
may have conveyed the impression that what is needed is
a franker, more unbiased, more honest look at adequate
veterinary care from the standpoint of humaneness. If I
have conveyed these impressions, it is because I have them.

I have not discussed the economic aspects of the sug-
gested changes, partly for lack of time, but also because
determination of value should be made independently of
determination of cost. Part of the problem at the moment
iS—what value do we put on truth and on humaneness?
This question I pose as an Insider—that is, as a scientist
and as a human being.

References

1. Animal Welfare Institute: Basic Care of Experimental
Animals. 5th ed. Anim Welfare Inst, New York, NY, 1970. '

2. Burns, R.: To a Louse. On Seeing One on a Lady’s
Bonnet at Church. In A Collection of English Poems, 1660—1800.
Edited by R. S. Crane. Harpers, New York, NY, 1932.

3. Dykstra, R. R.: Veterinarian’s Creed. Pitman-Moore Inc,
Washington Crossing, NJ 1954.

March I5. I976

4. Emory University Clinic: Introduction to the Pain Clinic.
Emory University. Atlanta, Ga, 1974.

5. Federal Register. Title 9, Section 3.10 (a), May, 1972. ,

6. Federal Register. (9 CFR Part 3), 39(187), Sept 25, 1974.

7. Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources: Report of
Discussions on USDA Notice of Proposed Rule Making. ILAR
News, 18, Fall, 1974.

8. Merton, R. K.: Cited in: Does It Take One to Know
One? Columbia Reports (Jan, 1973): 2.

9. Mowat, F.: Never Cry Wolf. Dell Publishing Company,
New York, NY, 1963.

10. National Society for Medical Research: Bull 24, Aug,
1973.

11. Proceedings of the Business Sessions, AVMA, 106th An-
nual Meeting, Minneapolis, Mn (July 12—17, 1969): 138.

12. Rohweder, R. A.: Statement of the National Society for
Medical Research: More Pampered Than Pets. Hearings on
HR 1937 and HR 3556, Sept 28 and 29, 1962. US Government
Printing Ofﬁce, Washington, DC (1962): 317.

13. Russell, W. M. S., and Burch, R. L.: The Principles of
Humane Experimental Technique. Methuen and Company, Lon-
don, England (1959): 3.

14. Selye, H.: Stress Without Distress. J. B. Lippincott
Company. New York, NY (1974): 29.

15. Selye, H.: Stress Without Distress. J. B. Lippincott
Company. New York, NY.

16. Stevens, C.: Care and Treatment of Laboratory Dogs
and Cats. Symposium’ on Carnivores, Joint NY Metropolitan
and Delaware Valley Branches, American Association for
Laboratory Animal Science, New Brunswick, NJ, June 5, 1975.

17. von Lawick, H. Solo: The Story of an African Wild Dog.
Bantam Books, NY, 1973.

18. White, R. L.: Restraint and Anesthesia for Laboratory
Animals. In: Care of Laboratory Animals, A Guide for Canada.
Canadian Council on Animal Care, 151 Slater St, Ottawa, On,
Canada KIP SH3 (1976): In press.

5|7

 




 

 

 

 

 




   

R0 0111.
~ Save
» in the

 

      

The scandal of a city
that overbreeds its pets
then lets them suffer
and die. What can be
done about it?

By Ann Cottrell Free

PHOTO BY BARRY BLACKMAN

The big black Labrador looked slightly
bewildered when he saw the man with
the needle. But whatever was going to
happen, he was going to shake hands
first. That’s the way they trained him,
before they turned him in because he
was “too friendly.” They told the man
at the humane society shelter: “He loves
everybody, licks them, shakes hands.
Damn nuisance—too much for us. Surely
you can get a good home for him.
Purebred, too.” The euthanizer finally
shook the dog’s paw, swore at the “son
of a bitch who turned you in,” and got
on with the job. Then he said, “Next,
please.”

Next,- please. Those two words and
the ugly, sweet smell of death mean
there is no room—save in the heart—for
the animals which overcrowd the metro-
politan area’s shelters and pounds. And
so the puppies and kittens, the healthy,
the sick, the friendly, and the frightened
must be “put to sleep,” as the euthaniza-
tion is called. The puppies pictured on
the' cover were killed two days after
they were photographed.

But it is better—if good homes cannot
be found—that these unwanted creatures
die. a painless death in a humane shelter
than suffer ordeals like that which took
place recently in Montgomery County,
and is duplicated in the District and
nearby counties:

“We found the dead beagle puppy
lying on the ﬂoor of the empty house.
His head was too large for his bony,
stunted body. Part of his right back leg
was missing. It had been chewed off and
eaten by the other two abandoned dogs.
One of them was also dead, the other
too weak to rise. The humane officers
took that one to the shelter, but they
didn’t pause before giving him the lasr
rite of kindness: a merciful death.”

In the words of a local humanitarian,
Phyllis Wright, “It’s not an animal prob-
lem, but a people problem.” All the
animals ask is the right not to be born.
This means control of breeding, and
until a safe and economical birth control
pill or vaccine is developed—and it’s
being worked on—spaying and neuter-
ing is the best answer. .

Last year 110,000 of the area’s esti-
mated half-million dogs and cats were
handled by shelters and pounds in the
District, Alexandria, and Arlington,
Montgomery, Prince George’s, and
Loudoun counties. Not all were killed,
but far too many were.

The homeless stray or the lost animal
is no longer the chief occupant of the
shelters and the waiting lines outside the
euthanasia rooms. Today the “turn—in” is
the leading victim. A surprising number
of the animals given up by their owners
are purebreds—from poodles to Weimar-
alters—reﬂecting the disposable product
pattern of our afﬂuent society.

Some animals are given up for legiti-
mate reasons, such as the owner’s illness
or death, moving from a home into an
apartment, going abroad, or no longer
being at home during the day. But others
are turned in for reasons as foolish as the
one for obtaining the animals in the
ﬁrst place.

“ ‘Grew too big,’ that’s a favorite,”
Gene Hogan told me. Hogan is man-
ager of the overcrowded Montgomery
County Humane Society shelter, which
handles more than 400 animals each
week.

“Hardly a day passes that we don’t get
a whole litter of puppies or kittens
along with their mothers. Tired of all
these births, they tell me. But instead
of having the females spayed—even if
we offer to help them out with our
spay fund—they say, ‘Take her too.’

“You ought to hear the excuses. ‘Too
playful.’ ‘Always wants to go for walks.’
‘We’re going on vacation.’ You ought
to hear the kids bawl when Mom and
Dad drop off the dog on their way out
of town—car all loaded—to the beach
or somewhere. Dad tells them to ‘stop
that damn crying,’ that he’ll get them
another pet when they come back home.
Not from here, he won’t.”

Our conversation was interrUpted by
the arrival of an up—county farmer and
his wife, bringing seven little part COOﬂ
hound puppies they had found huddled
together on the side of a road. “HOW, for

God’s sake, can we get homes for them _

before a new batch arrives?” Hogan
asked. They were euthanized by 111166-

tion a few days later.

hile the humane societies pray
for the right kind of owner to
drop in and save thelr dogs and
cats from the one-way trip to
the euthanasia room, many Washing—
tonians are going in the opposnte dlI'CC-
tion looking for pets. They troop not,
onlv to the “free-kittens” places and to
the’ professional breeders, but they also
are going by the thousands to pet shops.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

many located in suburban shopping cen-
ters and department stores. .

At some pet shops for 3510*or 3515 they
can pick up charming mutts bought by
the store manager for a dollar or two
from the owners )of unspayed females
that mated with a neighbor’s male dog.
But most purchasers want pedigreed col-

lies, pekes, pulis, poodles, shepherds, St.‘

Bernards. And if the animal is not in
stock, chain franchised 'shops, such as
Doektors (ﬁve locations), Pet 'Mart
(nine locations), or Puppy Palace can
get it for you. Many have standing or—
ders with “puppy mills,” which turn
out purebreds like doughnuts.

Purebreds are big business. Puppy Pal-
ace, for example, is part of the Mars
Candy Company’s holdings, along with
Uncle Ben rice. Some of the chain-
franchised shops deal directly with
breeders. Others work through “collec—
tors” who travel their rural roiites,
picking up puppies from small farmers
who have added puppies to their poultry
line. By the time they arrive, many have
been transferred from hand to hand,
crated, trucked, airshipped, and trucked
again.

“The purchaser doesn’t mind the high
price tag of 35200 and $300 because he’s
got the notion that he’ll get it all back
several times over by going into the
breeding business himself,” Bettijane
Mackall, Fairfax County humane ofﬁcer,
told me. “Just take a look any Sunday
at the classiﬁed ads .of purebreds for sale
by‘home breeders.”

Checking on the condition of animals-

in pet shops is one of Mrs. Mackall’s
duties, leading last year to successful
prosecution of the Docktors Pet Shop at
Loehmann’s Plaza in Falls Church for
violation of the state’s anticruelty law.
The shop closed soon thereafter.

0 discover why so many ﬁne,

healthy animals are killed- when

people are buying so many new
. puppies and kittens means a long
1nvestigation of the little understood and
largely ignored animal welfare problem.
It involves. turning your back on hun-
dreds of appealing, hopeful animals. It
means ﬁghting back bitter tears as you
see their freshly euthanized bodies
stuffed into trash cans for hauling away
to incinerators or rendering plants for
boiling down for soap and other prod—
ucts. It leads to stiﬂing such grotesque

thoughts as, Will the dog that licked
my hand today wash it tomorrow?

This kind of exposure to the animal’s
moment of awful truth involves you in
the technical study of gauge of the
needle, the number of cc.’s of sodium
pentobarbital, and the location of in-
jection—the heart or the vein of the leg?
You become more concerned about the
quality of death than the qUality of life.
, It also leads to damning not only the
breeders, the pet shops, and the can’t-
be—bothered owner, butalso the indif—
ference of too many veterinarians, edu-
cators, newspapers, and radio and
television stations. And ﬁnally, there are
the overworked humane societies. ‘

Why haven’t ' they—as the self-ap-
pointed guardians for these speechless
creatures—done more to close the com-
munications gap? If more people knew
animals were available, wouldn’t they go
to the shelters?

But as you visit the shelters and talk to
the managers, kennel men, and humane
ofﬁcers, you ﬁnd yourself face to face
with another heart—wrenching phase of
their responsibility—the cases of starva—
tion, abandonment, freezing, burning,
mutilation, hanging, and other tortures
inﬂicted on animals, not excepting man-
animal rape. (A coatimundi was the most
recent reported victim. But she bit the
man.)

“We had nearly twice as many cruelty
calls in 1970 as in 1969,” Montgomery
County’s Polly Buel told me. In Fairfax
County, Pearl Twyne and Bettijane
Mackall keep on the run constantly
checking cruelty reports. Recently, three
of their cases came up in court on the
same day and they got three convictions.
One was for the branding of a kitten with
a red-hot coathanger. In Prince George’s
County, humane ofﬁcer Eleanor Hogan
handles calls, ranging from kids dropping
kittens down trash chutes into furnaces
to visiting a riding stable and ﬁnding
starved dead horses on which stray dogs
were feeding...

Edna Cooke of Alexandria tells of
ﬁnding houses and apartments contain-
ing dead and dying cats and dogs, aban-
doned by their owners. The Washington
Humane Society’s three agents and its
president, Vaynor McNeil], keep on the
go in the District, investigating cases
from upper Northwest to the heart of
the inner city. Many involvemutilations,
burnings, and hangings of animals, often

by children. In the last two years the
Washington Humane Society has inves-
tigated more than 2,500 cases.

Increased use of guard dogs has also
added to the cruelty. “Shocking the way
people underfeed and chain out their
guard dogs in all weather,” says Vaynor
McNeil]. “Much of the trouble comes
from security agencies’ renting out dogs
to warehouses, stores, used car lots. The
other day we found a dog that had been
chained to the bumper of a car for
tWo years.” In the winter dogs are found
frozen to death. In the summer they die
from the heat and no water, or being
locked in ovenlike cars.

Training devices to make dogs obedi-
ent or vicious bring constant complaints.
Spiked collars that cut into the ﬂesh are
too often used. One man fed gunpowder
to his dog to make it more vicious. Fast
action by Fay Brisk of Virginia Knauer’s
Consumer Advisory Committee at the
White House resulted in the removal by
the Food and Drug Administration of a
dog food containing the male hormone
testosterone from the shelves of Anlmal
T.V. Trainers pet shop on Seventh
Street. Owner Edward Tuck had
claimed the special food would make
dogs more aggressive.

The big societies and shelters carry the
brunt of the burden, but individuals and
smaller groups also help. People like Vir-
ginia Sargent, Kathy Sullivan, Bernice
Moss, and Catherine Briggs are nearly
always on call.

study of today’s animal welfare

problems leads to the inescap-

able conclusion that more com-

munity understanding and sup-
port is needed.

“Can’t you go to the Washington
newspapers for help?” I kept asking.

“They don’t seem to be interested un-'
less it’s something like a dog ﬂoating
down the river on’ a piece of ice,”
an Arlington humanitarian complained.
“The suburban papers are better, but
the surface isn’t really scratched.”

Said a Chevy Chase matron: “we’ve
been screwed enough by the papers,
making us look like a bunch of little old
ladies in tennis shoes. Every time they
use the term ‘animal lover,’ I squirm, be-
cause there’s always the' implication
‘people hater.’ I wouldn’t ask them for a
damn thing. But if we were hunters,
think of the publicity we’d get.”

 




 

But Betsy Kiernan of the Washington
Animal Rescue League took up for the
newspapers. “I just don’t know what
we’d do if the Evening Star didn’t run
that ‘Looking for a Home’ picture of
one of our animals each week. It does
bring in the people and sometimes they
adopt others if they can’t get the one
they wanted—but we still need more
help. We handled ﬁfteen thousand ani-
mals last year.” She also pointed out
that the Star, Post, and News carry
“found” 'animal classiﬁed ads, one time
only, free of charge.

Only the Fairfax County Animal Wel-
fare League and the National Humane
Education Center in Loudoun County
now run available-for-adoPtion adver-
tisements. NHEC’s Phyllis Wright often
brings dogs and cats that need homes to
her 12:30 P.M. Friday appearance on
WTTG’s Panorama show. The Fairfax
League has persuaded local radio stations
to describe some of their available ani-
mals. One of the league’s members, Anne
Lewis, writes a weekly column for
suburban Virginia newspapers that de-
scribes available animals. Bettijane Mac-
kall writes a similar column for the
Virginia Sentinel.

Other shelters shy away fro-m adver-
tising or editorial matter on speciﬁc
animals. One reason is the fear that by
the time the information appears in the
papers, especially in a weekly, the arrival
of new animals will leave no room for
the ones advertised as available. The
Fairfax League handles this problem by
renting an additional kennel and asking
for a contribution from the new owners
to help defray costs of this extra shelter.
“We are getting good response,” shelter
manager Valerie Hougan told me.

wish we could get newspapers

to cover us as a regular thing,”

Montgomery County Humane

Society’s Polly Buel said.
“None of us here has time to work up
stories for them.” A tall blonde, she is
the society president plus the county
humane ofﬁcer and state riding stable
inspector.

“Look at a typical day for me. At the
shelter by ten after stopping to inspect
a couple of adoption homes. Hardly be-
fore ] get in, there’s a cruelty case to
go out on. And the calls have already
piled up. Then I hear we’ve burned out
another bearing on one of the trucks.
The man at Rockville Courthouse wants
me to come out there to go over shelter
plans—we’re breaking ground in July.
I have to get material together for the
horse starvation case that’s coming 'up

next week. I go out on the cruelty case.

A neighbor’s feud most likely, but a cat
has been poisoned. Go to Rockyille and
also catch a stable inspection. \Vhen I
ﬁnally get back, it’s more of same. Ex—
cept we have thirty more animals than
when I went out. Before going home, I
go out in the back room and before l’m

 

 

they are then shoveled into trash cans for disposal.

done l’ve euthanized twenty-ﬁve dogs
and cats. I’m home about ten at night.”

Mrs. Buel held up an eight-page news-
letter. “We’ve just started this and are
sending it out to a mailing list of six
thousand people, some of them very
inﬂuential. Maybe it will help to tell our
story if nobody else will.”

From these and other conversations, a
picture begins to emerge that accounts
for the lack of areawide attention to
this pressing community problem. The
media has too long had a stereotyped
idea of humanitarians as slightly comical
ﬁgures. It has hung on to equally old—
fashioned ideas of what makes a good
animal story.

Humanitarians, on the other hand,
have not tried hard enough to over-
come these misconceptions. Some are un-
happy about the stories that have been
written about them, and thus harbor
hostility. Others, grateful for small fav-
ors, fear pushing their luck. Many don’t
want to publicly discuss the ﬁnal dis-
position of unwanted animals; they are
afraid people with good reasons for dis-
posing of their animals will stop bring-
ing them in to shelters and the animals
will then suffer a fate worse than
euthanasia.

Hour by hour pressures. prevent many
humane leaders from breaking out of
the very bind that has caused the over-
work; thus there are few innovative at-
tempts to solve the problem. Clearly, the
societies need more money and ’more
members, particularly those' with “know
how” and inﬂuence. They need the in-
volvement of idealistic ’ but practical
people like those who helped with Earth
Day and civil rights eﬁ’orts. For animal
welfare is both an ecological and soci-
ological problem.

ue to a chance meeting in No-
vember between two twenty—
year-olds and Phyllis Wright at
the National Humane Educa-
tion Center, a beginning may have been
-made in bringing animal welfare into
the “now” world. Paul and Mary Jo
Smith of Arlington brought two cats to
Miss Wright at the Waterford clinic for
spaying.’ It’s cheaper there because the
National Humane Education Center is
subsidized by the Humane Society of the
United States. _
“They had long hair, blue jeans—sort
of the hippy type,” Phyllis recalled. “We
don’t get many of that kind and I was
so glad to see them and to know they
cared about limiting their cats’ breed-
ing.”
She showed them around the center,
reeling off statistics as she went. “In a
year’s time, we’ve spayed six hundred
forty-seven female catsand dogs, and
neutered one hundred twenty—elght
males. That means maybe in one yearat
least ten thousand kittens and pupples
can’t be born. Did you know that from
one birth with all systems “go” down the
line for ten years you could have eighty-
four million, six hundred ﬁfty-two thou-

sand, six hundred and forty-four PUP‘.

,,

pies. . . . .
The Smiths began to get the picture,
particularlyr when Phyllis turned down

. ' . y
a family that wanted a eat but didnt‘

want it spayed. The family wantedto
haye one litter of kittens so the kids
could see “the miracle of birth.” ._

“\Vould you want to bring your Chll-
dren here sometime for witnessing the
miracle of death?” Phyllis asked.

A few days later Paul Smith tele—
phoned Phyllis Wright. “we think the
main problem is overbreedmg. Too many




 

Gene Hogan, manager of the Mont-
gomery County Humane Shelter,
With a litter of part coon puppies who
lived only a few days before being
euthanized by injection.

animals.”

“What do you know, I made my
point,” Phyllis said dryly.

“We want to do something about it.
Tell people so they’ll understand. What
about us making a ﬁlm?”

“Just great,” replied Phyllis tone—
lessly, wondering what kind of trip he
was on.

Paul went on. “We’ve just inherited

about thirty thousand dollars and we
want to produce a ﬁlm for showing to
schools, clubs. . . .”

When she recovered from the shock,
Phyllis offered technical help, actors—
human, canine, feline—and all the as-
sistance possible.

Within a few months, the thirty-
minute 16 mm color ﬁlm, “The Animals
Are Crying,” will have its premiere at
L’Enfant Theatre. It was written and
directed for the Smiths by Peter A.
Beltz (“The Medium Cool Filmmakers,”
WASHINGTONIAN, January 1970). It was
photographed in Montgomery County,
Alexandria, and Loudoun County, by
cameraman George Voellmerﬁ Most of
the actors were local humanitarians.
Paul’s father, Grove Smith, acts the part
of a man giving up his dog. Beltz’ three
stepchildren, Pim, Pam, and Pom, play
maior roles. The ﬁlm can be purchased
from PMS Films, Inc., PO. Box 9583,
Arlington, Virginia 22209. Telephone
527-1634. Paul and Mary Jo hope that
humane societies and conservation and
educationgroups throughout the country
will buy the ﬁlm, especially for distribu-
tion to schools.

“Let’s hope it’ll turn on some of the
ecology types who are all hung up on
beer can pollution,” Beltz remarked as
we looked at the ﬁlm rushes. “This is
so much worse.”

 

 

hen the Washington humane
movement started 101 years
ago, the most powerful people
. of the day were incorporators
of the Association for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals (In 1885 the name
was changed to the Washington Hu-
mane Society). They got it chartered by
Congress and within a year’s time they
had one of the nation’s strongest animal
anticruelty laws on the books. Title 22,
Section 8, of the District of Columbia
Criminal Code reads:

“Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives
when overloaded, overworks, tortures,
torments, deprives of necessary suste—
nance, cruelly beats, mutilates, or cru-
elly kills, or causes or procures to be so
overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tor-
mented, deprived of necessary suste-
nance, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or
cruelly killed any animal, and whoever,
having the charge or custody of any ani-
mal, either as owner or otherwise, inﬂicts
unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or
unnecessarily fails to provide the same
with proper food, drink, shelter, or pro-
tection from the weather, shall for every

 

such offense be punished by imprison:

ment in jail not exceeding one year, or
by ﬁne not exceeding two hundred and
ﬁfty dollars, or by both such ﬁne and
imprisonment.”

The law" was eagerly enforced. By
1911 enthusiasm for arresting abusers of
animals—especially beaten and over-
worked dray horses—reached an all-time
Washington high with 2,017 arrests and
1,929 convictions. But even this was not
enough. (Or was it because mostly men
were running the humane society?) In
1914, nine ladies met at Woodward &
Lothrop’s and the Washington Animal
Rescue League was on its way. It pro-
vided for the ﬁrst time a decent shelter
for friendless animals. A close-knit group
throughout the years, the current presi-
dent of the league is Betsy Simpson
Kiernan, daughter of one of its early
presidents, Mrs. C. Augustus Simpson.

In 1936 some of these same women,
led by Mrs. Henry C. Moses, now
ninety-four, and the late Mrs. Merton
Twogood, set up the Tailwaggers Club

and Clinic to underwrite veterinary care

_ forpets of the poor. It led the town in

awareness because of strong support from
Cissy Patterson, the dazzling, powerful
publisher of the Times-Herald. After
Mrs. Patterson’s death, Mrs. Frank Allen
West became the mainspring, enlisting
the support of newer members of the
power structure. When Mrs. West died
in 1969, the city lost some of its humane
spark. .

In 944 a new approach to .animal
probleliiis came from Pearl Rainwater
Twyne. Fresh out of Missouri. With a
job at the Department of Agriculture,
the Indian-Irish girl and her husband
settled in Arlington. A chance encoun-
ter with a stray dog and one look at the

county pound led to her starting the
Arlington Animal Welfare League and
negotiating an agreement to take over
most of the county’s animal control
work. “This was the best of two worlds
for both us and the county. The league
could never have raised the money to
operate the, shelter, which replaced the
old pound,” she said.

‘This same type of arrangement is
used in Alexandria and in Montgomery
and Fairfax counties, .with the earmark-
ing of county funds solely for shelter
and animal control work. These sums
vary from $35,000 from the county for
the Arlington league, to $76,000 for
Alexandria, $61,000 for Fairfax, and
$125,000 for Montgomery. In several
cases, such as in Arlington, the tax-raised
funds are insufﬁcient and the societies
have to foot the bills. This can be a great
burden when the societies’ small trea-
suries are already stretched to cover the
essentials of humane work: education,
public relations, advertising, cruelty in-
vestigations, and supplementary veteri-
nary and spaying help to deserving cases.

Prince George’s County’s new 300-
-animal shelter is operated by county
government employees under the ad-
visory eye of an Animal Control Com-
mission. The local humane society han-
dles education, cruelty investigations, a
lost and found center, and training
classes.

ost of the humane society-oper-
ated shelters have the same re-
quirements for adoption of
animals. “We do not release
animals unless the home is approved and
there is proper exercise space, such as a
fenced yard,” Margaret McHale of Ar-
lington explained. “We require written
permission from the management if we
release a small dog or a cat to an apart-
ment dweller.” Some of the shelters will
not place animals under four months old
with children under six years of age.

“Our great focus is on obligatory
spaying of females and encouragement
of neutering of males,” Gene Hogan
said. At Arlington, male cats must be
neutered and at Phyllis Wright’s shelter
male dogs also must be neutered.

(To spay comes from the old French
“espeer,” which means “to cut with a
sword.” In reality, it is the surgical re-
moval of the ovaries of a female animal.
Neutering of a male animal can be either
the removal of the testicles or a vasec-
tomy, the removal or resectioning of
the. cordlike canal that carries the sper-
matozoa. Clinical studies have shown
that the neutered animals do not suffer
either from obesity or a loss of verve or
character. Veterinary studies have shown
that the incidence of 'cancer in spayed
and gelded animals appears to be lower.)

Each of these shelters‘hasa plan for a
minimal prepayment spay fee. Some re-
quire payment at time of adoption;
others, such as Fairfax and Prince

 

 




George’s, have a $4 or $5 reimbursable
deposit plan, leaving it to the new owner
to select his own veterinarian and nego-
tiate a price. When a certiﬁcate or copy
of a receipted bill from the veterinarian
is submitted to the shelter, the new
owner gets his deposit returned. Charges
for spaying and neutering of dogs and
cats-has increased considerably in recent

years, with the absolute minimum now ’

about $40 and in cases of large dogs re-
maining in the hospital for a few days.
more than $50.

Arrangements with cooperative area
veterinarians have resulted in charges
at the Arlington and Alexandria shelters
of $15 for female dogs, and in Mont-
gomery County, between $20 and $30.
By supplementing the cost out of its
own pocket, the older Washington Ani-
mal Rescue League has been able to hold
the spay fee at a remarkable $8. Its total
mandatory cost for females, including
spaying and rabies and distemper shots,
is $15.25. Spay and neutering rates at the
nonproﬁt NHEC Clinic at Waterford,
where veterinarians are on salary, are
female dogs, $20; female cats, $15; male
dogs, $15; and male cats, $5. Some of the
shelters and the Tailwaggers Clinic have
small, special spay and neutering funds
to help hardship cases. Recently, a group
of Maryland and Virginia women or-
ganized SPAY (Society for the Prevention
of Surplus Animal Young), which offers
assistance to owners of dogs and cats in
need of spaying and neutering.

Other adoption procedures vary some-
what from shelter to shelter. The $4 li-
cense fee is paid at Montgomery County
shelter, while in the District the $3 fee
is paid either by mail or in person at the
District license ofﬁce. In Arlington and
Alexandria, license tags are $1 for males
and spayed females, but $3 for unspayed
females. Higher license fees for animals
able to propagate might be a deterrent,
some humanitarians believe. But to make
it effective, others point out, it should
be in the $25 to $50 range and this might
not be politically feasible. Columnist
Anne Lewis of. Fairfax suggests a $100
license for the “backyard breeder.”

The dog tag can be a lost dog’s great-
est protection. Though it is against the
law for dogs to run loose, humane ofﬁ-
cers urge owners to keep their dogs’
collars and tags on them at all times.
“All of the shelters keep the tag num-
bers on ﬁle,” explained Montgomery
County’s Loretta Moon,” and if they
have the dog’s license number, his owner
can be notiﬁed immediately. Of the
3,048 dogs picked up by her shelter’s
trucks last year, 1,206 were returned to
their owners. A redemption fee is re-
quired of owners by all the shelters.

Though the area’s humane societies
try to cope with animal overpopulation-
through arrangements with cooperative
Veterinary surgeons and establishment of
the spay clinic at Waterford, they look
longingly at Los Angeles, where a mu-
nicipal spay clinic was opened in No-

vember. Los Angeles hopes .that the
city’s subsidy of the clinic will be offset
by savings in the handling and euthaniz-
ing Of animals.

The Los Angeles plan lends itself to
adaptation here, beginning in the inner-
city Model Cities area, where hundreds
of animals run at large. It has been sug-
gested that ModelCities funds be ob-
tained to employ more dog catchers and
buy another truck solely for collecting
and then killing animals from this area.
Costs would run at least $25,000 annu-
ally. Instead, after collecting, why not
use federal funds for the employment of
one or two veterinarians—either on sal-‘
ary or under contract—to spay and neu-
ter animals of low-income residents of
this area? It could be done free, as in the
case of the District’s rabies clinics, or
for under $5. It would 'result in reduc-
tion of births and greater enjoyment of
owned animals. The idea of this demon-
stration-type program is being viewed
with interest by the Model Cities Ad-
visory Board, headed by Mrs. Caroline
Reese, and by William Cary, former
associate ,director of Environmental
Health for the District.

ithin the last twenty years, the

animal welfare effort in Wash-

ington has been considerably

broadened by creation of the
Humane Society of the United States.
This national organization has given ma-
jor support to all the animal protective
laws passed by the Congress, beginning
in 1958 with passage of the Humane
Slaughter Act. The leadership of Mrs.
Roger Stevens in the laboratory animal
protective ﬁeld has been nothing short
of brilliant. Mrs. Stevens now directs
the Animal Welfare Institute and So-
ciety for Animal Protective Legislation
from her home here. (She and her hus-
band, who is head of the Kennedy Cen-
ter board of trustees, now live in Mrs.
Frank West’s old Georgetown man-
sion.)

The activities of these and other na-
tional groups in Washington are in star-
tling contrast to the District of Colum-
bia Pound—the only facility in the area
still retaining a name that goes back into
antiquity. Inspection of the pound can
leave you with the impression that phil-
osophically it has not changed since the
days of President Grant, when it im-
pounded a couple of his stray horses.

Today, the pound Operates under the
District Department of Health with an
annual budget of $118,000. This covers
primarily salaries and supplies, exclusive

- of purchase and maintenance of vehicles,

buildings, or equipment. 7 -
The ound does not beneﬁt from any
type of3 citizens’ advisory committee to
help bring it up to modern standards.
For the following reasons, it can be con-
sidered the least adequate animal facility
in the area:

I It does not advertise found dogs.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

‘an neutermg of 11111 is:

 

 

11.110 for nominal fee-137

 

iii-rescued.” menkeys and farm’ftf '
«11:11 groups of alleges era.
1016111311011 given on animal :
. SSWright, executive dime- '
ruslow, clinic supervisor.

”ethesda, Md. 20015; ' 656 9043.

18 A..~M ll P.M.te1ephonc clean

ering assistance on locating lost

11' ﬁnding good homes for those
ers Kathleen Suma pres

'Iion: P. 0.801: 837 Leesburg,

, , 703) 777 2504. Thanks to small

161115, cats are receiyed and given

I“: Bile homes in shelter. For extreme

jip'v see only. Catherine Briggs, pres;

Brown shelter manager
,jeorge’s County Animal Shelter,

D’Arcy Rd” Forestville, Md. 21050;

41011411., 101 2 4 4: 3043; 831.,
ed Sun Operated b} county em-
11:31:: 1111 Animal Control Commie-
mains high standards of care and
of 26,000 animals annually. WelI-

Clean all-indoor kennel. Only

. 1151 with evening hours. Operates
.. es Requires $4 reimbursable spay
“on adopted females. Iverson W
ghg. Animal Control Ofﬁcer and
Supt

eorge’s County Humane Society, .

: '11,.261, Riverdale, Md. 20840; 864
uelty calls are inx’eStigated by 11011~
' 121111: ofﬁcers Mrs. GHogah, pres

, for the Prexenrion of Surplus

1mg, 13.0. Box 7056 N. Station, 7 I.

I 2:207. This newly organized
eshssistanee to 1m nets of dogs
med of spaﬁug .1111! humming.

, 15 funds through ﬂea 111.1rkets
I).C.a11d 11ez11l1y Marx land resi~
11$ Emih Ihssinger 864 7744;

gnnans e111 Mrs Malie AtIdi:

CIth and Clinic, 71 0 St,

11:11gton, DC. 20001; 667~5731.
11011313., 2:30 5. This 11011»
elps 11121111 pet: ouners “he

night in 11,343 dogs and 928' .
16111‘ by its 1110 veterinarians '

3 British society of similar

11. {11:14 dog obedience classes,

g; Operates lost and found sen-
11:13 Mrs. Hegh Gmgerxch,

1111ieI B. McPherson, exec. 56C}. -7
.eratmn 0f Humane Sometaes,’ ;
CIArliogtoo 222011535 1729. ..
V‘Irs C Dodson ‘l‘IIorrisette' ’ .,
s founded by {owner Ar». .. F
In '1‘ Weifare League President,

7 ffhi-s 51316111111: gmup of
s has succeeded in getting
121 proteeth e legislation

 

 

 

 

 

 

River. Bend Rd
2200 This new
for the new I

by lawyer Jo ,
Washmgton,
years ‘ag '
shelter r . _
cational. 7' ’

 

 

 

» Holiywood fﬁ

than other

111111131 proteetw

ﬁnanmal help If

' research.

Animal! Welfa "
Grand (3121111111ng
Established and
Stexens 111 19515?‘

and other abuse
named as e lega

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

I It does not check lost dog ads.

I It does not provide resting boards
in kennels. ‘

I It does not require spaying of fe-
males.

I It does not have an approved homes
policy.

_I It does not distribute information
of the area’s nonproﬁt animal clinics or
spay programs.

I It does not post notice that some of
its dogs are sold to research laboratories.

The District pound is the only area
facility continuing to use routinely the
explosive decompression killing chamber.
Due to the possibility of “excruciating
pain for a short time,” the American
Veterinary Medical Association does not
approve this method. It considers the best
method for the euthanizing of individual
animals to be intravenous administration
of barbiturates. These drugs produce
painless death, much like going to sleep,
but should be given by a veterinarian or
by a skilled technician.

Mrs. Kiernan of the Washington Ani-
mal Rescue League, where the intrave-
nous method is administered by a vet-
erinarian’s assistant, has tried to persuade
the pound to switch to the approved
method. But to no avail.

“We had such a chamber at the shel-
ter,” James Souders, league shelter man-
ager, said, “but the animals didn’t always
die. Something was always wrong with
the machine. The animals were fright-
ened and I think suffered. When Miss
Wright was here as manager she wanted

it out.”

Dr. Paul L. Romig, chief of the Dis-
trict’s Animal Disease Control Division,
which has jurisdiction over the pound,
maintains that the high altitude cham-
ber is an “acceptable method” and that
it is “expedient” for euthanizing large
numbers of animals. The pound han-
dles half the number of animals as the
league.

In the company of Dr. Charles Calao,
vice president of the Washington Hu-
mane Society, and Dr. Romig, I viewed
the decompression chamber—ﬁlled with
four small female dogs. The dogs gasped
for breath and bit at the air as the oxy-
gen was withdrawn and they were taken
to a simulated height of 55,000 feet. Af-
ter a' period of convulsing, they lay still.

Later that day some of the same
group, including Poundmaster John R.
King, met with Dr. Raymond L. Stand-
ard, director of the District’s Health De-
partmenr. Also present was Dr. Charles
R. Hayman, associate director for pre-
ventive service of the Community Health
Services Administration.

Dr. Calao and I passed on our unfa-
vorable observations and statements from
the AVMA in regard to the chamber. We
also noted that some facilities throughout
the country still using the chamber at
least sedate their animals orally to cut
down on fear and pain before placement
in the chamber.

Dr. Standard was sympathetic to the
idea of the most humane method pos-
sible. Because Dr. Romig does not wish

to perform euthanization by injection
and pound personnel do not want to be
trained for the duty, there seems to be
no alternative but employment of trained
outside personnel on a retainer basis or
the employment of an extra staff person.
In short, it is a matter of money. “It is
very hard for the pound to compete with
the needs of children and old people
for an extra dollar,” Dr. Standard said.
“But I would like to see it done if we
can ﬁnd the money, either through dona-
tions or appropriated funds. But you will
have to help us get the money.”

“In the meantime, however,” Dr.
Standard added, “we will start oral
sedation to cut down on fear and pain.”
This is now being done, but it is not a
long-term solution to the problem of
painless killing of animals.

To obtain this reform and other im-
provements to bring the District pound
up to area standards—and to establish
a citizens’ advisory council—expressions
of support can be sent to Dr. Raymond
L. Standard, Chief of.Health Service
Administration, 1875 Connecticut Ave-
nue, Washington, DC. 20009. COpies
could be sent to Mayor Walter Wash—
ington at the District Building. He is
an honorary vice president of the Wash-
ington Humane Society.

These and other improvements in
Washington’s animal world—not forget-
ting the Model Cities breeding-control
plan—would be a signiﬁcant step of the
kind taken in 1870 when the city, with
Congressional blessing, went on record
that, in its heart, it is humane. D

Reprinted by permission from the April, 1971 issue of the WASHINGTONIAN magazine.

Copywright c 1971, The Washington Magazine, Inc.

 

onllor’s notes _

 

Ann Cottrell Free, whose survey of
the area’s conservation establishment ap-
peared in our April 1970 issue, returns

with a strong in-
dictment of our
cruel and waste-
ful treatment of
pets.

Her interest in
animal welfare
has continued
since she broke
into print as a
teen-ager with a
story in the Na-

tional Humane Review. It has led since
then to hundreds of Other articles, a
novel, the winning. of awards including
the Albert Schweitzer Medal, and the
adoption of three foundling dogs. While
visiting the District of Columbia Pound
for this story she adopted another; then,
luckily, found a good home for it.

 




