THE SOLIDARITY OF EVIL
AND OF

VIGIOUS METHODS.

PAPER BY A. GOFF, LAID BEFORE THE CONGRESS
OF PURITY SOCIETIES HELD AT CHICAGO U.S.A.,
OCTOBER 1901.

(Read by O. EDWARD JANNEY, ESQ., MD, President
Of the American Purity Alliance.)

Social Purity Alliance.

18, TOTHILL STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W.

Price Three-Halfpence Reduction for Quantities”

 




 

PRINTED BY

LONDON:
DORRINGTON BROS, BEAR ALLEY,
STREET, E.C.

FARRINGDON

 




 

 

THE SOLIDARITY 0F EVILAND
OF VICIOUS METHODS.

Some months ago I felt it to be my duty to call the
attention of the Social Purity Alliance of England to the
report of evidence given last year (1900) before the Senate
Committee on a bill for the restriction of vivisection in the
district of Columbia.

That report contained evidence given by medical men
that vivisection has a tendency to promote certain forms of
vice. After due consideration by the Committee of the
Social Purity Alliance, several of its members united in
requesting me to prepare a paper to be laid before your
Congress, setting forth the grounds and the causes of our
conviction, that those methods of biological research, new so
universally practised and known under the general name of
vivisection, are a standing menace to purity of thought and
even of act. I was averse to taking up this task 3 still I did
not feel justiﬁed in refusing my colleagues’ request, and,
thinking over the solidarity of evil and of vicious methods,
I was greatly struck by the words of Mrs. Leavitt, when,
in addressing your last Congress on the connection between
impurity and intemperance, she said :——-“ It sometimes
happens that a reformer is so thoroughly engrossed in his
own cause, that he loses sight of the importance of other
reforms, and even of the help that others might be to his.
In a few sad instances he has been known, ﬁguratively
speaking, to throw stones at others who are really helping
him.”

 

 




 

4

These words, so true too often of the workers in the
kindred causes of purity and anti-vivisection, almost decided
me to follow on in Mrs. Leavitt’s steps, when an essay on
Purity, written entirely from the physiological standpoint,
by a medical man and upholding vivisectional methods, fell
into my hands, and I felt I could no longer shelter myself
under the old plea, “7200i episcopam',” but that whether ﬁt
or unﬁt for the work I was asked to undertake, undertaken
it must be.

At ﬁrst sight many, possibly most, persons will not grasp
the connection between the two subjects, impurity and
animal experimentation. I prefer this term to the more
usual, but less correct term vivisection. Let us however
consider what the two, apparently different, lines of action
spring from. Impurity is the lawless, reckless gratiﬁcation
of a desire inherent in the human creature—a desire which,
if kept under proper control, leads to the building up of that
most valuable and sacred institution, the family ; but which,
if indulged in lawlessly, leads to degradation, misery, and
the ruin of the family. The determination to gratiﬁy this
desire, heedless of anything but individual convenience and
taste, leads persons to seek to justify their proceedings, by
maintaining that when for any reason marriage is barred,
impurity of life is anecessity for men, because of their
physical nature. Knowing that the moral code must con—
demn their conduct, they seek to prove to themselves and
to others, that every rule has its exception, and that the
moral code may therefore be put aside when the physical
nature demands it. Unfortunately too often this plea is
accepted, even by those who have no intention nor dis-
position to break the moral law, and that wretched heresy is
allowed to pass muster, that what is morally wrong may
be physiologically necessary, therefore right. The further
development of this heresy we see in the State Regulation
of Vice—a development, I may add, which. strange to say,
at times ﬁnds favour with persons who utterly condemn
the proposition, that purity is not always compatible with
physical well-being.

Now we will look at the animal experimenter. He, like

 

 




 

 

u

D

the supporter of impurity, is confronted at the outset by a
code of conduct based on moral grounds. This code
teaches, that it is Wrong and punishable (I speak of England
and America) to cause severe suffering and damage to an
animal. He, however, actuated by a strong and admirable
desire, implanted in the human creature, the desire namely
for knowledge, not content with innocent, unsensational
ways, seeks recklessly and lawlessly, to gratify his desire,
not heeding the fact that his methods necessarily entail a
disregard of laws based on moral grounds. He, again,
pleads the necessity of gaining knowledge, urging that the
path is barred unless he may follow this royal road; he,
again, urges that every law has its exceptions, that the right
of the physical nature to be understood, demands that the
laws passed for the protection of animals shall yield in the
interests of human health, and the public once more,
though possibly incapable of perpetrating the cruelties it
condones, yet too often accepts the same heresy, that what
is morally wrong may be physiologically right, and therefore
be a painful necessity. ‘

I think there is not much difference between these two
lines of argument; though starting from apparently diffe:
rent beginnings, they bring us to pretty much the same
goal, the right to gratify desire 5 and if we persevere and
see how the proposition as laid down by the vivisector
works out, we shall ﬁnd it made painfully clear, that the
connection we at ﬁrst did not recognise exists, and that the
vivisecting laboratory is not a school in which we can
expect to foster purity of thought or even of act.

I should like here to call attention to the fact, that the
human mind is a most delicate machine or instrument—s0
complex, so delicately strung, so readily put out of tune or
out of balance, that anything which violently excites it,
which imperatively takes possession of it, is a danger to it.
Put it out of tune in one way, put it out of gear in any way,
and it is quite impossible to foresee how other parts of the
machine or instrument may be affected. Strike a note
in any part of its register, and you may ﬁnd responsive
enharmonics running over the whole key-board of its mental

 

 




 

 

 

6

and physical sensations. Excite the physical unduly, and
the mental nature will respond 3 excite the intellectual or
spiritual nature unduly, and you get a physical response.
Consider for a moment, how it is known, that an undue
prepossession of mind in meditating on the sufferings of
our Master on the Cross, has absolutely reproduced, in the
mystic, the stigmata in hands and feet. Recalling these
facts, let us see what those conversant with the life of the
vivisecting laboratory tell us of it 3 and let us consider
whether it is likely that work there will produce, or suffer
to continue if already possessed, that balance of mind, that
looking to higher things, that desire to keep mind as well
as body unspotted, which alone deserves the name of Purity
——for merely physical Purity may exist simply from tempera-
ment, without any accompanying mental or spiritual
qualities whatever. N ow, I would call as witnesses regard-
.ing the effects of the laboratory on the mind, Dr. Aber-
nethy, Professors Zellner, Claude Bernard, Michael Foster,
Cyon, Mantegazza and Brown Sequard. I can hardly
choose a more representative company. Dr. Abernethy, the
contemporary of Sir Astley Cooper and‘Majendie, laid down
the axiom that “Vivisection has the direct effect of de-
teriorating the moral sense, and that once the moral sense
is destroyed, it is impossible to foresee the consequences.”
Some thirty years ago, Professor ZOllner, of Leipzig, in
reply to the public utterances of Professor Du Bois Rey—
mond, of Berlin, Who complained that his students were
developing a continually increasing moral laxity, which he
could not explain, asserted that this was the natural out-
come of the atmosphere of vivisectional research in which
they lived, and although not originally a total opponent of
vivisection, yet in the “interests of morals, and of a regene—
ration of the German mind,” Professor Zollner called on the
State to entirely prohibit it.

Professors Claud Bernard and Cyon give us graphic
pictures of the state of mind engendered by the practices of
the advanced experimenter. “A physiologist,” says Ber—
nard, “is no ordinary man. He is a learned man, a man
possessed and absorbed by a scientiﬁc idea. He does not




7

hear the animals’ cries of pain. He is blind to the blood
that ﬂows. He sees nothing but his idea, and organisms
which conceal from him secrets he is resolved to discover.“‘6
Sir Michael Foster’s very sympathetic life of Claude Bernard
shews that he considered his friend to have given no unfair
delineation of a learned physiologist; in fact, in speaking
of Bernard’s work he uses the term “ the joys of the
laboratory.”

Professor Cyon says :—“ The true vivisector must
approach a difﬁcult vivisection with joyful excitement.
. He who shrinks from cutting into a living animal,
he who approaches a vivisection as a disagreeable necessity,
may be able to repeat one or two vivisections, but he will
never be an artist in vivisection. . . . The sensation of
the physiologist when from a gruesome wound, full of blood
and mangled tissue, he draws forth some delicate nerve-
branch, and calls back to life a function which was already
extinguished—this sensation has much in common with
that, which inspires a sculptor when he shapes forth fair'
living forms from a shapeless mass of marble.” T

Of Professor Mantegazza I will say a few words before
allowing him to speak for himself. He has written several
books on different subjects, and is an accomplished and, I
believe, a fascinating man. I have not myself read these
works, and I believe if I asked for them at the British
Museum, I might draw down on myself a lecture from the
librarian. They are called “The loves of men,” “The
physiology of love,” “The Hygiene of love,” and I have
seen them described by one who has read them, as works
wherein “science condescends to exhibit in the uttermost
fulness (and foulness), every bestial vice to be found
recorded in history and ethnology.” I will now let Mante-
gazza speak for himself. In his work on the “Physiology
of Pain,” he schedules his experiments under the heads
“little pain,” “much pain,” “ cruel pain,” “atrocious pain ”
respectively, tells us of one on a guinea-pig nursing its
young, and this I may say is no solitary instance of

 

*Introd: a l’Etude de la Médecine Experimentale_
’i‘Cyon’s Methodik.

 




 

8

animals in this condition becoming deliberately the subjects
of the severest experiment; many are on record, in which
the object has been to test, either physical endurance or
the endurance of maternal affection under the gravest
mutilation and suffering. Professor Mantegazza further
tells of an instrument he invented and called “the tor—
mentor,” of his use of toothed pincers and nails, and of
how he tore and crushed his subjects for hours at a time.
After giving lengthy and graphic details of the most pro—
longed and elaborately ingenious sufferings inﬂicted, he
analyses the phenomena of death by pain, and informs his
readers, that “these my experiments were conducted with

0

much delight and patience for the space of a year.”*T

What better description can be given, than these quota-
tions, of a mind under the influence of a dominant passion,
an obsession, an intoxication, by which it has become
absolutely divorced from that temperance of thought, which
is one of the greatest safeguards of purity of act“.l What
barrier remains against any imagination, which may present
itself to a mind in the condition described by these men as
animating themselves and their brother experimenters?
They are all of them men of the highest position in their
calling, who take their rank among the teachers, and those
whom vivisectors would admit as deserving of honour ;
cultivated men, one of them at least (Bernard), exercising a
most attractive inﬂuence on those who were brought in

contact with him.

Lastly I come to Brown Sequard, who, justly holding
that the scientist is false to his science if he will not follow
it to its logical conclusion, justly holding, that to advocate
a method of research as necessary to human knowledge and
health, and yet refuse to follow it to its logical termination,
would be merely to put that method of research out of court
as a rational occupation for anyone, did not hesitate to
follow his experiments to the bitter end, merely regarding

 

 

 

*Fisiologia del Dolore. (Florence).
_ 1' In the English paper The Abolttionist of Jan. 5th, 1902, are curious extracts
from another essay by Prof. Mantegazza, “The Physiology of Hatred,” in
which, at p. ‘209, he admits that “blood inebriates like wine and love.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

9

them as giving results to be scheduled and acted on, with—
out allowing any outside consideration to interfere with
What the laboratory had taught him. His animal experi-
ments are the subject of congratulation in the essay of which
I spoke at the beginning of this paper,—-experiments
quoted by the essayist to prove that chastity is not detri—
mental to the physical health. With those experiments I
have nothing to do. What I have to do with, is the treat—
ment based on those experiments, and of which the essayist
apparently was unaware, otherwise the essay could hardly
have been written by anyone upholding Purity. For the
treatment which followed, and was in fact the crowning of
the ediﬁce, was found, when laid by the Professor before
the medical societies of Paris, to be of a kind to which the
English medical papers found it impossible to do more than
slightly allude—one medical paper alone, as far as I am
aware, gave some attempt at a report, but gave it in the
original French. Later Dr. Brown Séquard, being asked by
the Société de Biologie,* to give some further details, some
clearer deﬁnition of what certain terms used signiﬁed, did
so, thereby making matters worse, the real interpretation of'
his meaning, which was somewhat obscure at ﬁrst, far sur-
passing in degradation and moral obliquity anything that
could possiby be imagined. So shocking were the reve-
lations, that it is next to impossible to obtain a full account
of them, and yet, they were but the logical outcome of his
animal experiments, and, what is more, the discoverer
asserted most positively, that he himself had greatly bene-
ﬁtted by the treatment, a fact others also perceived and
fully admitted.

Whether the experiments which led up to this triumph, 0r
catastrophe, whichever we must call it, were cruel or not,
has nothing to do with the matter under consideration. We
have here solely to consider the effects of these methods of
research on those who practise them—our business is not
with the bodies of the victims, but with the minds of the
operators. What we have to face is the fact, that a man
received among American and European vivisectors as a

*“ V. J ouITalﬁdeMédecﬁne,” ﬁ-Septembre, 1893.

 

 

 

 




 

 

10

master—mind, crowned his researches, pursued for very many
years 011 the principle laid down by vivisectors themselves,
of using organic as if it were inorganic matter, of treating
the sentient being as the geologist treats stones and rocks,
by a discovery logically attained, which landed him in an
abyss from which, had it been foretold to him at the be-
ginning of his career, we may be allowed to hope he would
have shrunk back, like Hazael when his future actions were
foretold to him by the prophet Elisha.

Other details could be given of the mental havoc these
methods of research have wrought on the human mind, but
it would too greatly extend this paper for it to be allowable
to do so.

Before concluding I would recall your attention to the
report of evidence given before the Senate Committee of the
District of Columbia, which was the cause of my English
colleagues wishing to place these matters before you. It
contains the following evidence given by a medical man,
not the only one who gave this class of evidence.

“ I but touch,” said this gentleman, “ the shadow of an
awful mystery, when I say that one of the most horrible
forms of mental and sexual perversion is displayed in the
torture of animals and human beings 3 that a recent writer,
Dr. Krafft Ebing, of the University of Vienna, declares
that there are numerous cases of beings in human form, who
‘ care only for the sight of suffering ’ and who ‘make use of
the sight of dying animals or torture animals to stimulate
their lust ; ’ and regarding the land where vivisection is no
more free than it is to-day in the District of Columbia, the
charge has publicly been made : ‘En France on prolonge les
vivisections pour se procurer d’infames plaisirs.’ I do not
need to hold this abomination into any clearer light 3 every
intelligent physician over 40 years of age is perfectly aware
of it.”* '

On these grounds I feel, as for many years I have felt,
that so long as we have the vivisecting laboratory among us,
we have a school insidiously training minds to become ﬁt

 

* P. 162, Appendix to Report.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

11

soil for impure thoughts and acts. If you look at the
Report of the Royal Commission on Vivisection of 1876, if
you look at the Report of the International Medical Con-
gress held at Berlin in 1890—you will ﬁnd the foul de-
praved jestqL the coarse amusement coupled with brutality”?
regarding facts which, if mentioned at all, should have been
mentioned with the utmost gravity, as necessary but not
agreeable to allude to. You will ﬁnd in the experiments
made on women during the last few years, experiments
which are the outcome of vivisection, signs of that feeling
which pervades the laboratory de minimis non cumt law.
You will perceive that the unbridled, lawless pursuit of
knowledge, without any consideration of how that knowledge
is attained, has a tendency to turn the mind towards lines
of thought distinctly opposed to Purity. In the experi-
ments of Kronig, of Doderlein, the Salpétriere, you will
ﬁnd what you will never ﬁnd in the annals of experiments
conducted on animals—you will ﬁnd positive reliable results,
facts on which an hypothesis may safely be based, not the con—
stantly changing results of animal experiment. But you will
ﬁnd these ﬁnal experiments coupled with drawbacks which,
with all that can be claimed for them, would make it im-
possible for anyone pretending to uphold Purity to do any
thing but utterly condemn them.

Experimenters are beginning to teach, and the public is,
to my absolute knowledge, beginning to accept the truth,
that the ﬁnal tribunal, whither, the value or the reverse of
animal experiment must come up for judgment, is the
hospital ward and the prison cell. It will be in the know-
ledge of many, that a few years ago a medical man intro:
duced into the legislature of Ohio a Bill, backed, mark you,
by physicians and clergymen, whereby criminals were to be
handed over to the physiologists, for whatever experiments
they thoughtdesirable to make in the interests of science.
Happily it was defeated. And in connection with this I
would mention, that again in Ohio, quite lately, the Car-
poration of Zanesville—on the same ground, the rightful
demands of public health—has enforced the State Regula-

‘l‘ Appendix to Report of Royal Com., p. 379.
1 British Medical Journal, August 5th, 1890, p. 408.

 

 




12

tion of Vice, known in England as the Contagious Diseases
Acts. If you follow up these questions carefully, you will
seldom ﬁnd these two dra-heads very long separated the
one from the other. One savor more I would say. on the
dangers threatening the hoSPi,‘ 1525, “Tell your hearers,”
said a great London physician ~"t’o‘ir‘ne a few months ago,
“Tell your hearers that they must ﬁght vivisection for
their own sakes. They think it affects animals only; it affects
themselves ; it is getting into the hospitals, I see it,.there.”

In conclusion, we must not be supposed to be in any Way

hostile to medical study. On the contrary, some of the .

strongest opponents these two vicious practices have had,
have been, and are highly placed medical men, Who have
opposed and do oppose them on scientiﬁc and moral
grounds. Speaking for myself, I would say that in
eyes no man stands higher than the medical man as a
benefactor of his race, provided, but only provided, he is
true to his great calling which should ever stand for purity
of life and thought—for the “ mans 3mm in corpora samo.”
From the assertions and revelations of animal experimenters
themselves, I and my colleagues are profoundly and abso—
lutely convinced, that the methods of study these men
follow stimulate and excite the mind, placing it under
mental and physical conditions destructive to its balance.
Hence the more full of energy, ﬁre, and initiative a mind
is, the more dangerous it becomes to itself. We hold that
just as a little gambling, a little opium-eating, is a ﬁrst step
which will inevitably launch many a man on a downward
course, a course on which he, from his temperament, will
be unable to put a check—so, a little vivisection, no
matter how carefully restricted, will, in many minds—and
often those among the most brilliant, light up a consuming
ﬁre which will lead them to moral chaos.

Vivisection, we hold, is by its votaries proved to be an
eXpression of unbridled desire, and as such must ever con—
stitute, wherever it exists, a standing menace to the cause
you are met here to-day to promote and defend. We,
therefore, as Purity workers in the Old World, come to
you Purity workers in the New World, and ask you to join
us in opposing this practice to the uttermost.

n
U

 




