_T HE,

iiuig'eztinn. ~

 








 

 

 

 

THE

CARDINAL ARCHBISHOP or
WESTMINSTER

ON

VIVISECTION.

 

 

' HIS EMINENCE CARDINAL MANNING has been from its
foundation in 1876 to the present time (March, 1891), a
Vice-President of the Victoria Street Society . for the Protection
of Animals from Viviseetion. The following is a summary
of the occasions on which he has publicly supported the work
of the Society; in addition to which he has frequently
attended the meetings of the Executive Committee :—

MARCH 20th, 1876.———Cardinal Manning joined a Deputa-
tion to the Home Ofﬁce, consisting of the Earl of Shaftesbury,
the Earl of Minto, Sir Evelyn Wood, Mr. Froude, Sir F.
Elliot, Mr. Mundella, Lord Mount-Temple, and Mr. Leslie
Stephen, to urge the introduction by Government of a
Bill to restrict Vivisection, in accordance with the recom-
mendations of the Royal Commission. (The Bill was
introduced immediately afterwards, and became,-——much
altered,—-—in August of the same year the Act 89 & 4O
Vict., c. 77.)

JUNE 10th, 1876.—-—Cardinal Manning Spoke at the First
General Meeting of the Victoria Street Society at Westminster

 




 

 

2

Palace Hotel, the Earl of Shaftesbury in the chair. Speakers :
the Marquis of Bute, the Earl of Glasgow, and others.

APRIL 22ml, 1877.—-—Cardinal Manning, the Bishops of
Winchester and of Gloucester and Bristol, Prince Lucien
Buonaparte, and Lord Mount-Temple spoke at the Annual
Meeting of the Society.

JUNE 25th, 1881.—-—Cardinal Manning Spoke again at the
Annual Meeting of the Society, held that year at the house
of the Lord Chief Justice of England. On this occasion His
Eminence said:

“ I am very glad to move this resolution, for in two years
I have not had the Opportunity of expressing what I feel on
this subject. There are men present now who know that
before that period I was not slow in expressing strongly
what I feel and desire. Then conviction had not been
awakened, and I take the ﬁrst opportunity that has been
offered to me to renew publicly my ﬁrm determination, so
long as life is granted me, to assist in putting an end to that
which I believe to be a detestable practice without scientiﬁc
result, and immoral in itself. (Cheers) And believing, as I
do, that it cannot be controlled ; that we had endeavoured to
control it; that we have hadla most elaborate commission
and report, that commission and report laid down the number
of conditions under which this practice must be admitted;
legislation was founded on that report, and I believe not only
has that legislation been ineffectual, but that we have been
entirely hoodwinked and the law has not been carried into
effect. I believe the time has come, and I only wish that
we had the power legally to prohibit altogether the practice
of vivisection. (Applause) I am quite prepared, then, to
adopt the report in my hand ; and I do so for reasons which
I ﬁnd in the report itself, which I read through attentively
and carefully this morning. One reason why I am glad to
adopt the report is contained in the memorial to Mr.
Gladstone (page 25), where I read: ‘ The Act 39 & 4O Vict.,
c. 7'7, which promised to effect the reconciliation between
the claims of science and humanity, has proved so ineffectual
that some of the experiments cited as typically cruel before
the Royal Commission (notably Dr. Rutherford’s) have been
in 1878 repeated under the direct sanction of the law; while
three times as many vivisectors were licensed in 187 8 as
there were men engaged in such pursuits throughout the
kingdom in 1875.’ That passage, I think, was written after
careful and exact examination of the facts, all abundantly

 

 

 




 

 

 

3

proving what is asserted, viz., that the statute that was
passed two years ago has been ineffectual, and that As WE
CANNOT CONTROL WE MUST PROHIBIT. (Cheers) Iread,
also, in the same document that Dr. Lauder-Brunton experi-
mented on ninety cats, and Dr. Rutherford on forty dogs,
all of whom endured many days of torture ; of cases of dogs
and rabbits baked and stewed to death by Claude Bernard ;
and of twenty-ﬁve dogs covered with turpentine and roasted
alive by Professor Wertheim; and I only ask whether, in
the name of ‘science,’ experiments of that kind can be
permitted ? The same document says, and says most
wisely: ‘Let not the name of science be made odious
by responsibility for deeds which, if committed openly
in our streets would call forth the execrations even
of the roughest of the populace.’ Then, again: ‘The
history of the existing Act has shown that it is futile
to attempt to separate the use of Vivisection (if lawful use it
have) from abuse. Between sanctioning its atrocities and
stopping the practice altogether there is no middle course.’
By prohibiting Vivisection ‘ You will at one and at the same
moment save numberless animals from pangs which add no
small item to the sum of misery upon earth, and men from
acquiring that hardness of heart and deadness of conscience
for which the most brilliant discovery of physiology would
be poor compensation.’ I think these sentences are both
weighty and true. (Hear, hear.) I was not before aware
of the horrors which had been perpetrated. In page 34 of
the Report there is a reference to the pamphlet on the Action
of Pain on Respiration, by the physiologist Mantegazza.
The professor describes the methods which he devised for
the production of pain. It seems they consist in ‘ planting
nails, sharp and numerous, through the feet of the animal in
such a manner as to render the creature almost motionless,
because in every movement it would have felt its torment
more acutely.’ Further on he mentions that, to produce
still more intense pain he was obliged to employ lesions,
followed by inﬂammation. An ingenious machine, con-
structed by ‘ our ’ Tecnomasio, of Milan, enabled him likewise
to grip any part of an animal with pinchers with iron teeth,
and to crush, or tear, or lift up the victim, ‘ so as to produce
pain in every possible way.’ The ﬁrst series of his experi-
ments, Signor Mantegazza informs us, were tried on twelve
animals, chieﬂy rabbits and guinea—pigs, of which several
were pregnant. One poor little creature, ‘far advanced in
pregnancy,’ was made to endure dolom’ atrocissimi, so that
it was impossible to make any observations in consequence

 




 

 

4

of its convulsions. Nothing can justify, no claim of
science, no conjectural result, no hope for discovery, such
horrors as these. (Applause) Also, it must be
remembered that whereas these torments, reﬁned and
indescribable, are certain, the result is altogether con-
jectural—everything about the result is uncertain but
the- certain infraction of the ﬁrst laws of mercy and
humanity. (Loud applause.) But on the other hand, I
know that Sir William Fergusson, whom we have lately
lost, has declared that science had never received the
slightest augmentation from vivisection, and no man had
greater experience than he; and when I know that Sir
Charles Bell, who with the practical knowledge of Fergusson
had a scientiﬁc genius peculiarly his own, has left a record
that no gains to science have resulted from vivisection, then
I say we are mislead if we believe that vivisection leads us
legitimately on to the path of discovery. (Hear, hear.) I
am ﬁrmly convinced that there is only one thing to do, and
that is to make the statute law of the land stronger than it
is. Let no one believe that England is free from the
enormities practised abroad. I love my country and my
countrymen, but I will not conﬁde in the notion that that
which is practised abroad has not been and cannot be
practised in our midst; and if I thought that there was at
this moment a comparative exemption in England, I would
say, ‘ Let us take care that there shall never be the re-action
of the Continent on this country, for it is true and certain
that whatever is done abroad within a little while is done
among ourselves, unless we render it impossible that it should
be done.’ ” (Loud applause.)

ON THE 218i JUNE, 1882, His'Eminence spoke again at a
meeting held at the house of Lord Shaftesbury, 24, Grosvenor
Square. After referring to many cruel experiments, and
particularly to the well-known statements of Cyon and Claude
Bernard concerning the insensibility of vivisectors to the
sufferings of their victims, he proceeded to say : “ I think that
if we are by these practices to reduce our medical men and
surgeons, and those into whose care we fall in moments of
suffering, to a state of moral insensibility like this, then happy
will be those who slip out of the world without passing through
their hands ! Well, then, it appears to me that as we have
the uncertainty of the result, and the certainty of atrocious
and unimaginable suffering, we have a case so strong, that
I cannot understand any civilised man committing or
Countenancing the continuance of such a practice. I will

 

 




 

 

 

5

add only one short word. I am somewhat concerned to
say it, but I know that an impression has been made that
those whom I represent look, if not with approbation, at
least with great indulgence, at the practice of vivisection. I
grieve to say that abroad there are a great many (whom I
beg to say I do not represent) who do favour the practice ;
but this I do protest, that there is not a religious instinct in
nature, nor a religion of nature, nor is there a word in
revelation, either in the Old Testament or the New
Testament, nor is there to be found in the great theology
whichI do represent, no, nor in any Act of the Church
of which I am a member ; no, nor in the lives and utterances
of any one of those great servants of that Church who
stand as examples, nor is there an authoritative utterance
anywhere to be found in favour of vivisection. There may
be the chatter, the prating, and the talk of those who know
nothing about it. And I know what I have stated to be the
fact, for some years ago I took a step known to our excellent
secretary, and brought the subject under the notice and
authority where alone I could bring it. And those before
whom it was laid soon proved to have been profoundly
ignorant of the outlines of the alphabet even of vivisection.
They believed entirely that the practice of surgery and the
science of anatomy owed everything to the discoveries of
vivisectors.- They were ﬁlled to the full with every false
impression, but when the facts were made known to them,
they experienced a revulsion of feeling. I will only detain
you further to ask if vivisection is to be continued, where is
its term or limit to be ‘2 What is to be its limit if we are
to be vivisectors, not for utility but for science ‘2 And if we
are to proceed upon the whole animal creation, multiplying
experiments on every vein, every nerve, every muscle, every
function of the body, with every drug to be applied and every
surgical instrument to be used, I would ask what is to be the
end of such practice ? To me than this nothing more terrible
can be conceived. I quite agree with. what your lordship
said a year ago. I do not believe this to be the way that
the All-wise and All-good Maker of us all has ordained for
the discovery of the healing art which is one of His greatest
gifts to man. He has indeed attached labour to the drawing
of the harvest out of the soil; but I do not believe the
revelation of the healing art will come in the furrow of the
atrocious suffering which vivisection inﬂicts on the lower
animals. I cannot believe it, I cannot call it a truthful
doctrine, but a superstition. But I leave it to the scientists,
and if they believe it, then in my opinion they are the most

 




 

 

 

6

superstitious men on earth. I sincerely hOpe that these two
Bills will pass into law, and that they will put a check to
this most atrocious practice.”

J UN E 26th, 1884:.——~Cardinal Manning spoke again at the
Annual Meeting held in Princes’ Hall, the Earl of Shaftes-
bury in the chair. In the course of his speech His Eminence
said :— i '

“ I can hardly conceive anything more horrible than the,

experiments that have been performed abroad. . . . I ask,
when we see practices of this sort all over the Continent, are
we so utterly bewildered by our self love as to believe that
anything in the English national character, or any public
Opinion in this country, will preserve us and our physio-
logists and our vivisectors from carrying on in due time,
however slow their pace may be, the same horrible experi-
ments as those which have been practised abroad? I, for
one. will not so deceive, and I will not ﬂatter myself—~I will
say more than that, I will not be so foolish or so vain as to
imagine, that that which has been done abroad by Italians,
Frenchmen, and Germans among whom I have lived and
know well—that they are men more capable of inﬂicting
cruelty than Englishmen; I cannot for one instant deceive
myself by the thought that what is done in those countries
in an extreme degree may not be practised here,'and I know
not how soon, because the experiments already done here
are the forerunners of those that may come hereafter.
“Nobody denies the lawfulness of capital punishment, I
believe, except certain theorists who happily have not pre-
vailed upon the intelligence of mankind. It is written in
Holy Writ, and we are not wiser than that Book, but who
will tell me that the lawfulness of capital punishment justiﬁes
the inﬂiction of torture .9 Your Lordship has just spoken of
a proposition 'made in the time of Charles IL, that convicts,
whose lives were forfeited to the State, might be operated
upon by the inﬂiction of surgical torture; Who would say
that capital punishment includes the right to inﬂict torture ‘2
(Hear, hear.) Once more. Nobody, I believe, except
certain very excellent people whom I respect in their life,
but not in their theology, maintain the unlawfulness of war.
Well, no one maintains that if war be lawful, the use of
explosive bullets or of poisoned wells, or i of the inﬂiction of
any kind of cruelty, is justiﬁed and contained in the right to
make war. Therefore, it is clear that the words ‘kill and
eat,’ and the dominion which the beneﬁcent Maker of all
things has given to man over the lower creatures, does not

 

 

 




 

 

 

7

justify the inﬂiction of exquisite torment in the name of
Science—the most misleading of all the cries of this
19th century—nine-tenths of which is curiosity, issuing, I
will not even say in knowledge, but issuing in a supposed
knowledge, which I believe to be, in large measure, barren of
result.” (Applause)

ON THE 9137:. MARCH, 1887, His Eminence spoke again
at the Westminster Palace Hotel, when he himself occupied
the chair. On this occasion, he made the following very
important remarks :—

“A literary man of very great reputation, and highly
celebrated for his literary powers, but not equally so for his
accuracy, I believe, was present at one of our meetings, and
he heard out of my mouth this statement : that inasmuch as
animals are not moral persons, we owe them no duties, and
that, therefore, the inﬂiction of pain is contrary to no
obligation. Now, he omitted to say that I did make that
statement for the purpose only of refuting 1t——( applause)——-—
but he put it into my mouth, and there it is in a book that 1s
sold at all the book- stalls in the railway stations, and I am
credited to this day with that which I denounced as a
hideous and, I think, an absurd doctrine. (Hear, hear.) It
is perfectly true that obligations and duties are between
moral persons, and therefore the lower animals are not
susceptible of those moral obligations which we owe to one
another ; but we owe a sevenfold obligation to the Creator of
those animals. Our obligation and. moral duty is to Him
who made them, and, if we wish to know the limit and the
broad outline of our obligation, I say at once it is His nature,
and His perfections, and, among those perfections, one is
most profoundly that of eternal mercy. (Hear, hear.) And,
therefore, although a poor mule or a poor horse is not indeed
a moral person, yet the Lord and Maker of that mule and
that horse is the highest law-giver, and His nature is a law
to Himself. And, in giving a dominion over His creatures to
man, He gave them subject to the condition that they should .
be used in conformity to His own perfections, which is His
own law, and, therefore, our law. (Hear, hear.) It would
seem to me that the practice of vivisection, as it is now
known and now exists, is at variance with those moral
perfections.

“Now there is one other word I will add, and that is,
I believe that science consists in the knowledge of truth
obtained by the processes which are in conformity with the
nature of God, who, the Holy Scripture says, is the Lord of

 

 

 




 

8

all sciences. (Applause) I remember Lord Shaftesbury
saying at one of our meetings, ‘ I don’t believe that science
can be attained by processes which are at variance with the
perfections of God,’ and if I have been right in what I have

laid down, as it appears to me, that the inﬂiction of torture '

of the most exquisite kind on the poor animals is at variance
with the perfections of God for that reason, my conclusion
is that science is not attained by that path, and that those
Who walk in it are out of the way.

“But I will most heartily continue to support the proceed-
ings of this Society, for at the present day we are under the
tyranny of the word Science. I believe in science most pro-
foundly within its own limits ; but it has its own limits, and,
when the word science is applied to matter which is beyond
those limits, I don’t believe in it, and, as I believe that vivi-
section is susceptible of such excessive abuse—such facile
abuse—such clandestine abuse—all over the land, and by all
manner of people, I shall do all I can to restrain it to the
utmost of my power.”

 

 

 

Published by the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF
ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION, UNITED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
ASSOCIATION FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION 0F VIVISECTION,
2-0, VICTORIA STREET, S.W. 4,91

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 




