 

 




 

THE PEOPLE’S DISPENSARY

FOR SICK ANIMALS OF THE POOR.
Founded I9I7. Incorporated I923.

Head Ofﬁce: 14, Clifford Street, London, W.1. Tel.: Regent 69I6.

Technical Administrative Headquarters:
14, Clifford Street, London, W.l. Tel.: Regent 007 I.

Technical Enquiries:
P.D.S.A. Sanatorium, Woodford Bridge Road, Ilford, Essex.
Telephone: Wanstead OOI I.

Patron :

HRH. THE DUCHESS OF KENT.

Founder and Honorary Director :

Mrs. M. E. DICKIN, O.B.E.

Honorary Treasurer :
THE RIGHT HON. VISCOUNT TREDEGAR.
F.R.S.A., F.R.S.L., D.L.

Council of Management :
Mrs. M. E. DICKIN, O.B.E., Chairman.
E. BRIDGES WEBB, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
STEWART COLE, Esq.
FREDERICK MONTAGUE, Esq., C.B.E.
LOUIS TUFNELL, Esq.

Secretary to the Council: C. E. Cole, Esq.

Solicitors :
Messrs. Moon. Gilks 8: Moon.
24, Bloomsbury Square, W.C.I.

Auditors and Accountants :
'Messrs. Portlock 8: Co.,
4, Staple Inn, W.C.I .

Bankers :
Westminster Bank Ltd., ZI, Hanover Square, WJ.
Barclays Bank Ltd., 45], Oxford Street, W.I.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

ur Patron, H.R.H. The Duchess of
Kent on her tour of inspection of the
P.D.S.A. Sanatorium~ which she
honoured with a visit on 2nd February,

1944.

 

 

 




 

Annual Report, 1945.

WING to the rigid curtailment of paper, during the

“far, this is the ﬁrst Annual Report it has been

possible to publish since 1938. In previous years,
our Subscribers received a full report of our work each
year, but during the last seven years all we could do was
to send them small leaﬂets containing a hint of our activi-
ties: and we deeply appreciate that our Supporters under-
stood our difﬁculties.

In this Report a short outline will be found of our
various labours from 1939 to 1945.

The declaration of War in September, 1939, did not
ﬁnd the P.D.S.A. unprepared: for a plan had been
formulated during that year to place the services of the
P.D.S.A. at the disposal of the public to the best possible

advantage in the event of War.

For the ﬁrst few days after War had been declared
our Hospitals and Dispensaries were almost overwhelmed
by the thousands of Animals brought for destruction.
From the beginning, the P.D.S.A. established the policy
that Animals should not needlessly be destroyed, but
many hundreds of people insisted that their Animals
should be put to sleep long before the threat of bombing
mater-ialised, or even before the enemy's threat began to
assume deﬁnite shape, so anxious were they to save their
Animals from suffering. Others, wanting to be free of
their Animals, said that if we would not destroy them they
would turn them loose into the streets; some even tied
them to the railings of Police Stations and Town Halls.

. The day before War was declared, we received
information that all destructors in London were working
to full capacity. Several Corporations, Animal Societies
and Veterinary Surgeons were therefore unable to cope
With the burial of these poor Animals, and the offer by
the P.D.S.A.. of the use of a meadow in the grounds of
our Sanatorlum was accepted. Then our real difﬁculties
began, for, as far as can be estimated, we buried half a
milllon Animals. This necessitated ﬁnding transport,
procuring 40 tons of lime, and extra labour.

When London was bombed in September, 1940,

most of the destructors were destroyed by enemy action.

4

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Again people rushed to have their Animals destroyed and
again we had to open our grounds for the receipt of their

bodies, this time receiving a further quarter of a million
Animals.

Our Technical Ofﬁcers, called upon to perform the
unhappy duty of destroying such a vast number of
Animals will never forget the tragedy of those days.

When the National A.R.P. for Animals Committee
was formed by the Government, the P.D.S.A. placed all
its resources at the disposal of the Committee, and worked
in co-operation with this organisation. Our Caravan
Dispensaries, fully equipped as First Aid Ambulances,
were used in the formation of Animal Rescue Squads, and
were manned by fully-trained Technical Ofﬁcers. Each
Squad was responsible for a locality in England, so that
a bombed area could be reached with all possible speed.
These Squads worked in London, Coventry, Canterbury,
Bath, Manchester, Liverpool, Birmingham, Plymouth,
Hull, Sheffield, Brighton and Swansea. In all, approxi-
mately 262,54] Animals were rescued and treated from

1940 to the end of the War.

Great appreciation of this work was shown by the
Police and Air Raid Wardens, and every possible help
was given by them to the Squads. Permission was given
to P.D.S.A. Oﬂicers to enter dangerous zones and build~
ings at their own risk, and as many Animals were left
behind in buildings evacuated owing to delayed—action
bombs, this dangerous work was frequently undertaken
by our Technical Ofﬁcers under conditions of extreme
risk. They faced high explosive and incendiary bombs,
shrapnel and tottering buildings, and toiled hour after
hour by day and night to rescue Animals trapped under
debris. Injured or shocked Animals were given treat~
ment and were taken care of at our Hospitals until they
could be returned to their owners. And if their owners
had been killed, every effort was made to place these
Animals in good homes. ‘

7 A Letter of Thanks from a Chief Warden ——

Numerous letters were received from eye-witnesses
expressing gratitude and admiration for the work of
the Squads—the following letter received from, a
Chief A.R.P. Warden was one of many :—

5

 




“I would like to express, together with other re-
presentatives in the surrounding districts and the
unfortunate general public, a very strong apprecia-
tion of the unstinted services being carried out in the
Areas so badly damaged during the latest phase of
the blitz, by your Ofﬁcer who is touring the affected
Areas and rendering such good service to the
Animals.

“ As we are in the immediate line and range and
daily receiving constant bombs, he must, I am
sure, be feeling the endless strain of constantly driv-
ing in the ‘Front Line,’ apart from his Rescue work.”

 

It is hardly necessary to describe the various forms
of Animal suffering rescued by our Squads during and
after the Raids; and later when the Flying Bombs added
a new form of terror . . .

 

It is gratifying to know that our Rescue Work was
acknowledged in other countries. For example: .. The
Montreal Star" wrote as follows:—

“In a room on the third story of a half-wrecked
house a spaniel and her new litter were trapped. The
demolition men warned a member of the P.D.S.A.
Rescue Squad that the whole structure was ‘hanging
by its eyelashes’ and might crumble into the debris if
he tried to climb the stairs. But the spaniel was
moaning with fright above, and nothing would coax
it to move. The P.D.S.A. Rescue Squad Ofﬁcer
didn’t try the stairs. Instead, he went to the third
floor of the house next door. He tied a rope around
his waist and gave the end to his colleagues to hold. .
Then he climbed out on a narrow ledge high above 1
the street. It was slippery with ice, frozen from hoses i
the-night before, but he edged his way along to the ‘
room wherethe Dog was. He put the pups in his

, pocket, lowered the struggling Dog out of the \
WlndOW with another length of rope, and then did
the trip back to safety along the ledge.”

 

The following reference to the P.D.S.A. Rescue
Squads was made in an article issued by the Ministry of
Information :—-

. 5‘ They are Mobile Surgeries, complete with medi-
cines, splints, bandages, and an operation table, and
they work in conjunction with the Police, Air Raid

6

 

 




Precautions, and Auxiliary Fire Service Authorities.
When one of these Services has notiﬁed a Squad it
sets out, with pickaxes, ropes and other tackle which
might be necessary for excavation work.”

Other P.D.S.A. War work included the ﬁtting up
of all our Hospitals aS‘First Aid Posts, and of obtaining
premises for other Posts in the neighbourhood of Dis-
pensaries. Barns, garages, shops and other places were
placed at our disposal, and necessary articles such as
tables, chairs, lamps, candles, mops, brooms, etc., were
quickly given. So our Dispensaries were soon surrounded
by a chain of First Aid Posts which were manned by
personnel the moment the sirens were heard, and were
kept open for an hour after the “All Clear” was sounded,
to enable everyone to bring their injured Animals.

 

 

 

 

The P.D.S.A. to the Rescue.

7

 

 




 

 

 

Practical War—time Leaﬂets were also published
showing how to protect Animals during a Raid, advice
on the difficult problem of food, the care of Horses and
Ponies for roundsmen making use of these Animals when

petrol became impossible to obtain. As many people,-

for the first time in their lives, became owners of F owls,
Ducks and Rabbits, owing to the rationing of food, the
P.D.S.A. felt it was of national importance to give advice
on their proper treatment.

The P.D.S.A. also bought 500,000 copies of a valu-
able booklet on these subjects, published by the Ministry
of Home Security, for free distribution.

We are thankful to say that although we went to
the limit of our resources to help in War—time and were
almost crippled by the loss of Staff who joined the Forces
leaving only a skeleton Staff to carry on our Normal Work
we were able to do so and ”no P.D.S.A. Hospital or
Dispensary was closed.

Added to this, the Sanatorium—the Headquarters
of the Technical work and some Dispensaries did not
escape the bombs of the enemy.

High explosives fell in the fields at the Sanatorium
very near the buildings and on one occasion during the
night, fire-bombs gutted the rooms above the Stables, and
but for the promptness and courage of the Staff on night-
work duty, the Stables would have been burnt to the
ground and probably the Store Rooms and Pharmacy.
Another difﬁculty was the scarcity of Drugs and Surgical
implements and the enormous increase in their price.

But still We were able to treat the suffering Animals
which thronged our Hospitals and Dispensaries. Here
again it is not necessary to repeat the types of suffering
brought to us as they are well known to our Subscribers

fiom our previous Reports and War-time Leaﬂets sent to
t em.

Special reference however, must be made to our
Horse and Pony work which greatly increased during the
years of War, owing to the shortage of petrol, and con-
tinues to do so. Especially is this the case with the return
of Ex—Service Men, whose chief livelihood is to start once
more to earn their living by means of their Horse or

3

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Pony who, as we have often stated before, is the real
Breadwinner for themselves and their families.

Just two cases out of many:—

Horse belonging to a wounded Ex-Soldier suffering
from a deep-seated wound in the back and unable to
work. The man supported himself and his invalid
daughter by hawking various goods. After treatment
and a rest in our Hospital, the Horse was returned to
owner ﬁt for work.

Pony suffering from Colic. The owner had been
discharged from the Army as unﬁt for work. He had
spent his small savings in buying the Pony and hiring a
hut in a back street to store fruit and vegetables to sell
in the streets.

A P.D.S.A. Ofﬁcer spent many hours during the
night with the Pony in its small stable to relieve its pain
and eventually the Animal recovered.

Such cases, with the thousands of Dogs, Cats, Rabbits,
Coats and many other Animals—including Birds, prove
once more how much the Letters P.D.S.A. mean to the
vast world of dumb suffering which surrounds us on every
side.

 

Treating a sore back. After treatment and a short rest
the Pony was able to continue his round.

9

 

 




 

 

 

Work Abroad

TANGIER. Our position in Tangier has been full of
difﬁculty and during the War the situation has often been
extremely delicate. The unrest and uncertainty of every-

‘ day life bring a heavy handicap to the work. The increase

in the price of living and the obtaining of medicines, food
and all other necessities for the treatment of Animals
are almost unbelievable.

The Report recently received from our Superinten-
dent gives some idea of the conditions under which he has
been working—He writes:—

“ With regard to our work—this has been—and
still is—the worst year we have had for a very long
time. Until a few days ago we have had no rain
since February (I945); eight months of drought
with a hot sun most of the time. Unless one has
actually experienced a long drought, it is hard to
imagine what it means. The fields have become
just brown dust, with no sign of vegetation, the wells
have dried up, and in the country the Moors went
miles to get water. A certain amount was obtained
for Cattle by digging holes in the dry river bed.

“As this drought has affected the whole of
Morocco, it has been almost impossible to buy food-
stuffs for large Animals, except at fantastic prices.
In the Zone of Tangier great numbers of Animals
have died of starvation and lack of water. In the
Spanish Zone of Morocco the drought was so bad
that the Moors simply left their homes, carrying
what possessions they could, and, driving their 1ive~
stock before them, came down in their thousands
from the Riff mountains and swarmed into Tetaun
and Tangier. The authorities, fearing an epidemic,
drove most of them back into the country.

” Many of them sold their Mules, Donkeys and
Cattle in Tangier. These Animals had travelled
hundreds of kilometres from the Riff, living on what
they could pick up on the wayside. Great numbers
dled, both human and Animal. Accustomed as
I am to seeing thin and starved Animals, I have
never before seen such frames of skin and bone.
Many of these I painlessly destroyed.

l0

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

.. Then there were the starving children. We had
many in our Fondak, just lying there in odd corners
covered over with a piece of rag. With the apathy
that descends upon exhausted people, they were
just left there to die. They seemed to be no one’s
responsibility, but I could not watch them slowly
dying, so I had to start feeding them. ’Then some-
one heard what I was doing and gave me some
money to help. I could do little beyond giving
them bread and Condensed milk. Sometimes I was
able to give them soup and bread.

" Trying to feed the sick Animals we have taken
into Hospital has been nearly impossible. For the
past four years Morocco has not had its normal
amount of rain, and this long drought has been the
climax. There is no hay, and the little barley avail—
able is such a high price that with my scanty funds
I am unable to buy it. I have been feeding the
Animals on .. Pea Haulm"——dried pea plants—
and straw. Occasionally I am able to get a little
bran, but it is very scarce and I am only able to buy
it with the permission of the Administration. It
has been most diﬂicult to get Animals better on such
a low diet.

" Naturally under such conditions we have had
some very bad cases in. Thin, half~starved Animals
soon get saddle—galls, and, like everything else, the
price of pack-saddles has gone up to at least ten
times the pre-war price, so that the natives continue
to use ﬁlthy, worn—out ones, hardened with sweat
and dirt. They rub sores in every possible place.

“I am still doing quite a lot of small Animal
work. There my difﬁculties are not so great,
although even with 'them I get a good deal of
disease caused by malnutrition, as the general
standard of living has fallen so low.

” Until next April or May I shall only be able to
take in the most serious cases, and I cannot tell you
how depressed I feel when I turn away cases which,
in better times, we would gladly have taken in. But
the present state of affairs is beyond my control;
there just isn't the food to be had.

I l

 

 




 

 

 

“As you have probably seen in the papers,
Tangier is once more an International Zone, and
the new powers that be are quite willing to help
me in my work, and if only it were Within my power
I could make quite a big show, for now is the time
to impress my work on the new Administration.
But it is impossible for me to maintain a Hospital
full of Animals now; neither funds nor food would
permit it.

" In the French Zone Animal casualties and
suffering have been appalling. Normally un-
observant people, not particularly interested in
Animals, have told me of seeing Animals dropping
dead in the fields and streets. Food has been un—
obtainable there.

.. Tangier is a strange place to live in these days.
The shops are full of everything one could want, but
the prices are so fantastic that only the rich can
buy, and alongside this show of plenty one sees the
most appalling poverty, hunger and starvation—

7‘ gaunt, grey~looking men, Women and children,
many of the latter obviously suffering from tuber-
culosis. About ten days ago police and soldiers
swept through the town and collected up over nine
hundred of .them, drove them down to the Port,
deloused and vaccinated them, and those that did
not belong to Tangier they put over the frontier into
the Spanish Zone. But as there is even less food

there than here, I notice that quite a lot have drifted
back again.

" There were so many things I had hoped to do
for the P.D.S.A. after the war, but now I find we are
in the grip of a set of circumstances we cannot
control. Only by patience and by carrying on as
best We can for the time being shall we be able to
further the accomplishment of our plans for the
enlarging and strengthening of our work out here."

, But still during the years of War the P.D.S.A. con—
tlnued its mission and in one year alone—1944—
2,171 Dogs, 180 Cats, 416 Horses, 154 Mules, 1,918
Donkeys, 24 Cows, 35 Goats, 11 Pigs, 33 Turkeys,
75 .Chlckens and 54 Rabbits—received treatment as out-
patients. In-patients treated at the Hospital were

12

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

53 Horses, 296 Donkeys and 15 Mules. In addition,
533 Animals were painlessly destroyed. making a Grand
Total of 5,968 cases handled during that year.

In I924 the P.D.S.A. went to Tangier. Since then
many hundreds of thousands of Animals have found
their way to our Hospital or have been Visited in their
own quarters, suffering from the result of neglect, cruelty
or ignorance. In most cases their agony—this is not too
strong a word—was appalling: especially among the
Donkeys.

Our heart—breaking work was greatly cheered by the
following letter sent to our Superintendent, which was
printed in the local French paper and translated into
English in the “ Tangier Gazette " and broadcast in
Arabic from the Headquarters of the French Govern-
ment in Morocco.

Sir,

“ Permit me to express in my own name and
those of my Mussulman brothers the keen admira-
tion that we have for the work done by you in
Tangier in your quality as Director of the P.D.S.A.;
a task accomplished with a goodness, a devotion and
a courage, which neither the fear of fatigue nor that
of danger can discourage.

“ Believe me that our sympathy and our grati-
tude, as well as those of all well-born hearts are
entirely yours, and that we do not know how to
praise your efforts enough. Efforts that are the most
meritorious as they encounter so often culpable in-
difference and a bad will that we cannot condemn
sufﬁciently. Rest assured that your devotion will
not go unrewarded.

“ You have treated with kindness your Animals
and ours, and those which have neither master nor
protector. Thanks to you, hundreds of humble
creatures have had their ills alleviated; others have
regained their health, others againreputed to be in-
curable have been spared the pangs of a long drawn
out agony.

l3

 

 




“ You have nourished the beast of the stranger,
and your charity has allowed numerous unfortunates
tokeep the beast that was their sole means of liveli-
hood. Also, you can say, not without pride, that
you have diminished the sum of suffering which
overwhelms living beings.

 

“ We come, my brothers and I, to what you have
so kindly done up to the present moment for our
town, and we beg you to continue your humane
labours. Work that is of such moral value that it
teaches even those whose hearts remain indifferent
to pity for all creatures that Our Lord God—May
His Name Be Exalted—has placed upon the earth,
and reminds those Mussulmans who have forgotten
the Brotherhood of Man as laid down in the Noble

Koran.

 

 

“ In repeating our thanks and the assurance of our
sympathy we have the honour, Sir, to be your very
devoted and very grateful,”

AHMED BEN KADDOUR.

We also greatly value the following letter sent by
Mr. Gascoigne, Counsellor of Embassy, in charge of His
Majesty’s Consulate General, Tangier:—

Sir,

“ Before leaving Tangier, where l have served as
His Majesty’s Consul General for the past ﬁve years,
I should like to record my admiration of the work f
performed by the Branch of your organisation which 1
has been functioning here all through the war. *

 

“There was a time which you will doubtless recall
in 1939 when your Society were considering the re-
call of their Tangier representative and the closure
of the.Tangier branch. The work performed by Mr-
Quarrlngton and his assistants during the ﬁrst ﬁve
years of the second Great War has been of the ut-
most value, not only from the technical point of
View, 1.e., the relief of suffering in the Animal world
and the training of the human being to treat Animals
m a proper manner, but also from my political
standpoint of local British prestige. The manner in
which Mr. Quarrington has cared for the animals

14

 

 

 




not only of our friends the Moors, but also of the
nationals of other countries, including enemy coun-
tries such as Germany and Italy, is worthy of all
praise. There are in Tangier a number-of veterinary
surgeons of reputed merit, including Spaniards and
French, but it will, I think, be of interest to your
Society to know that many Tangier residents of
Italian and German nationality preferred to have
their Animals looked after by your representative,
a fact which was duly noted by the Moors and by
other foreigners.

 

 

“I sincerely hope that the Tangier branch of
the People’s Dispensary for Sick Animals will con-
tinue its work, and that it may perhaps in due course
increase its scope by opening sub agencies in the
Spanish Zone and French Morocco.

 

 

“ Finally I should like to say a word of
special praise in favour of Mr. Quarrington, who u
throughout the war has hardly missed a day of duty ‘ 3‘:
at the hospital. It is very greatly owing to Mr.
Quarrington’s efﬁciency and devotion to duty that
your Tangier hospital has proved so successful, and
I feel that I personally owe him a deep debt of
gratitude for the manner in which he always carried
out any suggestions which I offered to him un-
ofﬁcially concerning his relationship with the
Spaniards, the de facto authorities in the Inter-
ternational zone.”

 

Your obedient Servant, .
A. GASCOIGNE,
Counsellor of Embassy in charge of
His Majesty’s Consulate General, Tangier.

At the outbreak of War we were compelled to with-
draw our Staff from Paris, Roumania, Eire, Greece, Cape
Town and Dutch East Indies. But we shall be returning
to each country as soon as possible, to start work afresh
in our Hospitals, Dispensaries and Caravans.

 

On Page 24 it will be seen we have already returned
to Paris.

15

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

CAIRO.

To give the history of the work of the P.D.S.A. in
and around Cairo from 1939 to 1945 would require a
small Booklet, for the space available in this Report is
totally inadequate for the purpose. Our activities can
be divided roughly as follows:—

l. At our Well—equipped Hospital in Abbassia, at the
edge of the Desert, including the regular tours into the
surrounding Villages and Markets with the Caravan

Dispensary.

2. At the Boulac Dispensary in Old Cairo and at the
P.D.S.A. Auxiliary, Delta Barrage.
3.

Our work among the Tr00ps.

Here is a summary of cases treated during one year,
1945. The previous years' Reports show the same

activity.
ln—Patients at the Hospital 1,403 (Large Animals
543, Small Animals 860).
Out~Patients at the Hospital Clinic 1,469.

Out-Patients at the Boulac Dispensary 3,602.
Patients at the Caravan Dispensary 14,323.

Out- and ln-Patients at the P.D.S.A. Auxiliary.
Delta Barrage, 352.

Animals painlessly destroyed 652.
Grand Total 21,781.

Here are a few cases:——-Donkey with two large
ﬁlthy wounds on each side of the ribs. They were
devoid of skin, showing the dried ribs which were ex-
posed. Other smaller wounds on different parts of the
body. Emaciated and had difficulty in walking-
Destroyed.

. MUle, in dreadful state: thin, chronically lame, blind
1n bOth eyes, covered with sores. Destroyed.

. Horse, suffering from complicated colic: wretchedly
thin and drawn up in pain. Had been in this condition
for four days. Recovered after treatment and long rest.

16

 

 

 

 




Animals are brought to the Boulac Dispensary by
owners of many nationalities, British, Armenian, French,
Greek, Italian, German, Egyptian and many others.
The Animals treated include Horses, Mules, Donkeys,
Dogs, Cats, Sheep, Coats and Rabbits. Some are cari—
catures of skin and bone, and misery personiﬁed. Dogs
and Cats covered with mange and sores. Starved
kittens. The larger Animals with sores, lame and
wounded with ghastly marks of treatment by ignorant
owners. Pitiful sights can be seen in the Waiting Room
where all types of people will be found clutching their
Animals, while outside on the pavement are gharry
drivers with their miserable Horses. Superstition and
ignorance abound, and often it is alleged that an Animal
was ill because the next-door neighbour had put the Evil

Eye upon the Animal.

 

 

 

The following cases from our Superintendent show
the ignorance with which we deal.

“ Donkey terribly lame with almost severed hoof:
sole of hoof rotten and alive with maggots. Destroyed.

”I received a message at H) p.m. that a Dog was
lying badly injured. I went at once to fetch it. It had
a fracture of the pelvis. Later another call to go to a
small Dog which had both fore legs fractured. Destroyed.
Last month I brought in to the Hospital ﬁve poor, over-
loaded, underfed and emaciated Donkeys, which I found
in a date Market. One had a huge hernia, another was
chronically lame, the third one had an old dislocation
of the hip which had been ﬁred in a number of places.
After giving them a rest and a good feed I destroyed
them: thankful that they were going to a far happier land.
The two remaining Donkeys may get better after a long

rest.

 

 

H A poor Egyptian brought a Dog which had
abdominal dropsy, its body almost trailing the ground.
The owner said the cause of the illness was that the Dog
had eaten a feather of a Goose, which had penetrated
the stomach, causing its food to rest in the bowels.

 

“ Another case was a Dog with a large incised
wound on‘ its back, caused by an Egyptian because the
Dog, an “ unclean Animal," had touched his " galabish,"
which necessitated the man going to wash the garment

17

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

seven times. He had slashed the Dog with a knife-—
hence the wound on its back."

The busiest Day at this Dispensary was when 168
Animals received treatment. '

The P.D.S.A. Auxiliary Delta Barrage.

Through the great generosity of Monsieur and
Madam Bartolozzi, of the Cotton Ginners Association
at the Delta Barrage, a P.D.S.A. Auxillary was estab-
lished there under the jurisdiction of the P.D.S.A.
in l940. Not only are Animals treated, many brought
from great distances, but the surrounding Villages and
Markets visited and Animals let out on hire to tourists
are examined. Monsieur Bartolozzi kindly arranged
that the Stables and empty Stalls at his factory should
be used for bad cases as the P.D.S.A. Hospital is 25
miles away. We supply the medicine, etc., and Monsieur
Bartolozzi the forage and bedding, for the Animals.
Our Superintendent attends once a week and at any
hour, day and night, responds to the call for an urgent
case.

It is impossible to give a full account of the work
of this Auxillary or the number and type of case treated.
Here are a few: Mare with prolapse of the uterus: Camel
with severe haemorrhage, due to pieces of string sewn
deeply into a muscle to cure lameness. Dog with a
deep wound on the back caused by a butcher slashing
it with a knife. Horses, Mules and Donkeys suffering
from colicz' Sheep and Coats with fractured legs. Nails
removed from Animals’ feet: sores and gaping wounds
dressed, and many other forms of Animal misery.

Magnificent work is being down by Monsieur and
Madam Bartolozzi, who devote all their spare time—9
and money—for the alleviation of Animal suffering, and
we are proud to be working in co~operation with them.

Just before War broke out we were honoured by
a visit to the Hospital by HE. Amin Osman Pasha, who.
at.that time was the Under~Secretary to the Egyptian
Mlnlster of Finance. In the Visitors, Book he wrote:

l8

 

 

 

 

 




“ This visit to an institution of which I did not
know was to me a happy surprise. The work is
wonderful, and the ideal is resting on the right
basis. Really, it has ﬁlled’me, after a hard and
tiring day, with new energy. Why? Because I
saw the noble struggle to attain a great end; reliev-
ing pain of the dumb without harming the owner,
who is not cruel by nature but, by necessity, and in-
viting his conﬁdence. And I promise to help the
plucky ﬁghters in their ﬁght.”

 

Amin Osman.

The World War.

In June, I940, the P.D.S.A. ﬁnancial position in
Cairo was very dark; only £l 183. 001. in hand and
salaries had to be found by the end of thermonth. Our
Superintendent consulted 'with his Staff and they agreed
that, come what may, wages or no wages, the work must
be carried on. In these straitened circumstances an-
appeal was made for support, and in due course the tide
turned, the P.D.S.A. was able to function, and our war
work in Cairo began.

 

Our Superintendent joined the Civil Defence
Corps and became the Area Ofﬁcer for the British Com~
munity in Abbassia: our Hospital being the Area I—I.Q.
Finding that Anti-British Leaflets were being widely
distributed in. the Markets and Villages, the P.D.S.A.
collected thousands of them and informed the British
Ambassador in Cairo. In reply he received the following

letter :—

 

“ I am directed by H.M. Ambassador to acknow-
ledge the receipt of your letter of 28th June, and to
inform you that His Excellency has read with great
interest of the valuable work being done by your
Dispensary in Egypt. His Excellency is also grate-
ful for your account of the reception by the fellaheen
at Oualyub of Italian propaganda leaﬂets and the
prompt and effective action taken by you to counter-
act their possible effects. Although a report of this
incident has, of course, already reached His
Excellency, your detailed description was of con-
siderable interest.

 

Continued on page 22.
I9 I

 

 




This man bought this Horse at a Horse market. It became lame
the next day. The owner refused to refund the money. The poor
man had bought the Horse with his gratuity which he received on
being discharged from the Army. He had a wife and six children
to support. The P.D.S.A. took up the case on his behalf and
compelled the original owner to refund the money. The P.D.S.A.
helped him to choose a suitable Pony for his work.

 

A section of the Stores Department at the P'.D.S.A. Sanatorium.

 

20

 

 

 

 




 

 

An old Horse suffering from shock and wounds from splintered
glass when a rocket fell nearby.’ The Horse 'is here seen on
arrival for treatment at the P.D.S.A. Sanatorium.

 




 

 

 

 

Continued from page 19.

“It is understood that arrangements are now being
made to give some ofﬁcial help to your Dispensary.
In addition,.,I am to transmit herewith a small sub-
scription to the funds of your Dispensary.”

We are gratified to relate that we were able to give
similar help in other ways.

It is equally gratifying to tell of the excellent work
the P.D.S.A. was able to do for Animals belonging to
our Troops in Egypt, to which it is impossible to do full
justice in this Report. At times our Hospital was full
to overcrowding with Dogs and other Animals belonging
to Soldiers, members of the Womens' Services and
Military Hospitals.

All nationalities, bringing their Animals for advice
and treatment, have found their way to our Hospital,
men from Greece, India, Australia, Poland, New
Zealand, South Africa, Rhodesia and many other coun-
tries, their Animals being not only Dogs and Cats, but
Monkeys, Deer, Foxes, Rabbits, Fowls and Pigeons.
These Animals were either personal companions, or had
been found by the men, lost or ill-treated. Many of
these patients had been out to the Desert and back again
two or three times, often under fire, with their owners.

Bringing his Dog, one Soldier said, “ He has been
my constant companion under ﬁre and during many
lonely hours in the Western Desert and in Syria."

This typical comment was well expressed by tWO
Rhodesian Soldiers who brought in a Dog they had
found in Tobruk, who was seriously ill with pneumonia. .
“ He has always stood by us and now we are going to
stand by him." '

Many hundreds of soldiers will never forget the'
P.D.S.A. Hospital in Cairo, to which many trudged long
miles during a short leave to bring a sick Animal—a pal
who meant so much to them in their hours of loneliness
or in time of danger.

GHQ

22

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

This starved Dog is an example of the
cases treated by the P.D.S.A. in

23

 

f‘

thousands of
Egypt.

 




 

 

 

 

 

PARIS.

This well~equipped Hospital—the gift of a generous
American Animal lover—was only just completed and
beginning to function when the Germans entered Paris
in 1940. Our Staff, fortunately, were able to escape t

England. . ‘

After six years working at home. Supt. Horne, in
charge of the Hospital and Dispensaries in Paris, has at
last returned to his work. He finds that the Germans
have practically destroyed the Hospital, only the walls
being left. The X—Ray equipment, all woodwork, doors,
shelves, cupboards; all electric and other ﬁttings; all the
Dog Kennels; all fencing and every scrap of metal having
been taken away.

But still the four walls remain, and ways and means
must somehow be found—we know not how—to re-equip
the Hospital before work can be started afresh. i ' i

We have opened one of our Dispensaries at 9 bis

Rue de la Bucherie, in Paris, where for many years such

excellent work was done for the sick Animals. Already

it is overcrowded with patients—so popular was the

g.D.S.A. that it was never forgotten by the poor in
ans.

 

This picture shows part of the P.D.S.A. Animals’ Hospital in PariS-
It was built and maintained through the generosity of an American
Animal lover.

24

 

 

 

 

 




'THE P.D.S.A. ALLIED FORCES’ MASCOT CLUE ,j
The Mascot Club was formed iniJuly, 1940: its

objects being to enrol as members Animals and Birds
serving with the Allied Naval, Military or Air Forces or

- with any branch of Civil Defence; to compile a record of
such Animals and Birds for inclusion in the permanent
records of the Imperial War Museum; and to award to
members, for special acts of courage, endurance or
ﬁdelity, the Dickin Medal for Gallantry, with the en-
graved certificate which accompanies it. The names of
Animals and Birds receiving the Dickin Medal will be
inscribed on the Roll of Animal Heroes kept at the
P.D.S.A. Sanatorium at llford, Essex.

 

The appreciation of members of the Forces and
Civil Defence, expressed in their innumerable letters to
the Club, has shown how true is their affection for their
Birds and Animals; also what an important influence the
company of these comrades has had on the morale of the
Allied Forces, apart from the actual useful work carried
out by Dogs, Pigeons and Mascots.

The award of the Dickin Medal for acts of special
gallantry has been greatly welcomed. Each recommenda—
tion is brought before the Committee and is carefully
considered, for the award—which is considered as the
V.C. of the Animal world—is not easily won. Up to
date there have been 34 awards, 1 l to Dogs, and 23 to
Pigeons. Recommendations usually come through the

War Office or the Air Ministry.

Royal Blue, a Pigeon owned by H.M. The King,
has received the Dickin Medal. We were highly honoured
to receive the following message: “I am authorised to
inform you that H.M. the King has been graciously
Pleased to accept the award. of the “ Dickin ” Medal for
the Pigeon." Royal Blue was bred and trained at I
Sandringham, and was the ﬁrst Pigeon in this war to 1
bring news of a forced landed aircrew on the Continent, ;:
covering lZO miles in excellent time. -

 

 

 

The P.D.S.A. Allied Forces’ War Memorial.

This Memorial is to take the form of a fleet gof
P.D.S.A. Caravan Dispensaries for work among the Sick

25

 

 




and suffering‘Animals throughout the British Isles. It is
dedicated in gratitude to the Animals and Birds who
have suffered and died on Active Service 1n our time of
terrible need.

We can hardly bear to think of the suffering of the
Animals owing to the War. Many thousands of the
Animals in the Transport Service—Horses, Donkeys,
Mules, Camels and Elephants—khrough long hours of
pain and exhaustion have trudged along rough roads and
deserts, not always in the hands of merciful drivers.
Many have fallen before the assault of our enemies. And
then there are the Dogs on their life—saving duties, who
have been wounded, enduring their agony in the front
line .of battle, side by side with our brave men. What
courage and self-sacriﬁce they have shown! One won-
ders what all these Animals thought about their awful
surroundings.

 

And the civilian Animals who shared with us the
horrors of the raids—ought they not, too, to receive some,
token of gratitude from us? The P.D.S.A. Rescue
Squads were eye-witnesses of their misery, and know how
they suffered. Like their comrades on Active Service,
these Animals frequently ignored their own danger to
stand by and help their owners; often they struggled to
find and help them in blazing buildings, when they them~
selves could so easily have escaped to safety alone. Truly
they were faithful unto death.

The loyalty of most of these dumb ones will never
be known. At the tomb of the Unknown Warrior we
keep in memory the thousands of brave, unknown men
who fought and died for us. Our War Memorial is also
a tribute to the Unknown Animals who gave their lives
in service for us, or were innocent victims in our war-—
not theirs.

 

Sure-1y no better way can be found to express our
gratitude to all these suffering Animals than by sending
forth a ﬂeet of P.D.S.A. Caravans for the relief of the
misery of their brothers and sisters? Indeed, we feel sure
that all Animal lovers will approve of our practical
Memorial, and will wish to take some part in making it
national and representative.

 

We need much money to purchase the Caravans and
to maintain their service. A Caravan costs ﬁll, 000 to
purchase. We have already been given Caravans by

 

26

 

 




   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

generous supporters, but we need at least ten more
vehicles.

The work of our Caravan Dispensaries is well known
to our supporters. They have travelled many hundreds
of thousands of miles, bringing relief to hundreds of
thousands of sick and injured Animals. It is impossible
to describe the many forms of misery brought to their
doors, as they have travelled chieﬂy in the overcrowded
areas, among factories, dockyards, and in other congested
districts where no other help was available for the poor
creatures, who, but for our Caravan Service, would have
1* endured their suffering without any treatment to relieve

their pain.

During the War the Caravans were equipped for
Rescue Work, and formed a part of our well-known
P.D.S.A. Rescue Squads. In this work some of the
vehicles suffered heavily from wear and tear and have
now to be reconditioned before joining the Fleet of
Caravans provided by the P.D.S.A. War Memorial. As
stated before, we need much money to send forth this
Fleet throughout our land. Surely a Work of Mercy
which will appeal to all who love Animals and whose
hearts ache for their dumb suffering.

 

 

 

I'Vk

One of our P.D.S.A. Motor Caravan Dispensaries.

  
 

27

 




 

CHILDREN AND THE P.D.S.A.

HE Aim of the

P.D.S.A. being to

hasten a New Day
for Animals, we learnt
from the earliest days
of our work the im—
mense importance of
teaching children about
the nature of Animals
and their responsibility
towards them. We have
been amazed how
quickly, with practical
teaching, their imagina-
tion has responded to
our effort. In previous
Reports we have told
about the horrible
cruelty some children
mﬂi“ “9°“ small “What should I do without
Animals, when their the P.D.S.A.?”
little minds are dark A question that is often asked.
and ignorant. But a
great change in the behaviour of such children takes place
if they are in touch with a Dispensary or a Caravan

 

‘ Dispensary: for here, before their eyes, they see sick

Animals being treated: and above all they bring their
own pets when in trouble of any kind. Apart from the
beneﬁt to their Animals and their own development in
charaCter, we feel that our work for them is doing much
to prevent cruelty in human beings, for a cruel child in—
evitably leads to a cruel man or woman.

The pathologist, Mr. Ferriani, who made observa-
tions on the abnormally cruel mother, found that she was,
when a child, noted for her cruelty to Animals or those
weaker than herself. Therefore in sowing the seed of
kindness in the hearts of children and imbuing them with
the spirit of chivalry towards something weaker than
themselves, we are conﬁdent that our teaching will bear

much good fruit for the beneﬁt of society generally in the
days to come.

28

 

 

.-

 

 




 

 

 

 

We rejoice to say that for many years, during Peace
and War, many thousands of children have learnt to love
the P.D.S.A., looking upon us as a friend ever ready to
help them in their troubles. They not only bring their
hurt Animals or Birds, but their broken toys, their dolls
and stuffed Animals so dear to the heart of child, to be
”cured" or mended: also their self-sacrificing small
gifts, and odd pennies, which we dare not refuse, " to

help the P.D.S.A."

. The P.D.S.A. Busy Bees form the Junior Branch of
the P.D.S.A. It is a Hive of young Animal—lovers who
do all they can to help the P.D.S.A. to treat sick and
injured Animals. The Hive has its Queen Bee, its Hive
Keepers, grown up members who take charge of a Branch
Hive; its Swarm Keepers, in charge of groups of Busy
Bees where it is not possible to form a Hive, and the
Busy Bees themselves. Each Bee receives a Badge and
all work in various and original ways to gather " Honey "

for the P.D.S.A.

But above all, through the pages of its Magazine,
“ The Busy Bees’ News,” simple practical instruction is
given to the Bees on how to look after their Animals, as
well as general information on the nature of Animals
and the wonders of Animal life.

In August, 1939, there were 500 Hives and Swarms
. and about 50,000 Busy Bees in Great Britain. Unfortun-
ately the outbreak of War meant the evacuation of
children and the complete unsettlement of the whole
Movement. But after two or three months the volume
of correspondence received at Hive Headquarters proved
that the children had not lost interest, for very quickly
they themselves had formed new Hives in the places
they had to be sent to for safety.

During the War, from September, 1939, to Decem—
- ber, I945, 115,576 letters were received at Hive Head-
quarters. This fact alone proves how greatly our
Children’s-Movement will extend when normal times re~
turn, not only in Great Britain, but also in other countries.

Already we have readers of “The Busy Bees’
News,” and many working Bees, in Canada, the U.S.A.,
Argentine, South Africa, and India, as well as a large
Hive working extremely hard in connection with our

Hospital in Cairo.

29

 




 

 

SOCIAL ACTIVITIES.

With the outbreak of War the social work of the
P.D.S.A. suffered severely, and we had to rely on rais-
ing money by Functions at which large numbers of people
could feel reasonably safe.

With this end in View, we did not encourage

crowded Dances, Concerts or Whist Drives, as, in the‘

event «of a raid, falling masonry might have resulted in
damage and casualties. So we concentrated on Dog
Shows, Garden Parties and Gymkhanas, although the
last had ﬁnally to cease owing to the fact that in our
opinion the Horses were not getting sufficient of the right
kind of food to be able to stand up to a heavy day in the
ﬁeld.

Therefore, during the hectic days of bombing, Garden
Parties with Dog Shows were chieﬂy organised, and we owe a
great debt of gratitude to all our practical supporters who made
it possible for us to run these Functions, by loaning their beautiful
gardens for the purpose. '

Certainly the most colourful Social Function held in
the open took place on September 8th, 1945, at the
P.D.S.A. Chelsea Show, which was opened by Sir Harold
Scott, MetrOpolitan Police Commissioner, who was re-
ceived by the Reception Committee. The Guard of
Honour consisted of Chelsea Pensioners, Mounted Police,
and M.A.P. Guard Dogs. Four trumpeters of the
Metropolitan Police, on their famous greys, sounded a
fanfare at the opening ceremony.

During the Show the public witnessed a wonderful
exhibition by the R.A.F. Pigeon Research Section: a
display by a team of Alsatian Guard Dogs: a competi~
tion for the best—trained Police Horse: also a Kennel Club
Show and a P.D.S.A. Democratic Dog Show. An
Auction of four Pigeons reached the ﬁgure of £880, the
sum being divided equally between the P.D.S.A. Allied
Forces War Memorial Fund, and the R.A.F, Benevolent
Fund.

Our Christmas Markets, usually held at the Dor~
chester Hotel, were not possible during the War years,
so we took a prominent part in the organisation of the

United Charities Bazaars held at Grosvenor House;

Here we were honoured by the support of Her Grace the
Duchess of Marlborough, Lord Bennett, and many well-
known stage, screen and radio stars.

Through the kindness of the Police, Flag Days were
granted to the P.D.S.A. in the majOrity of the areas

30

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

throughout the country in which our Dispensaries are at
work. We were greatly encouraged to note that the
ﬁnancial results of our Flag Days increased during the
‘ War years.

We are greatly indebted to our vast number of supporters
who rallied round us to help on these Flag Days and at all Social
activities: especially as we were passing through the almost un-
endurable times of stress, strain and danger of War years. And
now we are looking forward to greater successes in this most
important Department of the P.D.S.A., in days to come.

THE P.D.S.A. ASSOCIATES. Headquarters, l4, Clifford
Street, London, W.l. '

. The Associate Movement is a Peoples’ Movement
which supports the P.D.S.A. in treating the Sick and
Injured Animals of the People—among whom alone it

works.

Associates. In addition to paying a minimum Annual Subscrip-
tion of 2/6, they do all they can to help the P.D.S.A. Their
Motto is—Service. On becoming an Associate, a badge and a
copy of the Associates’ Handbook, containing particulars of forms
of service and other information, is sent from Headquarters.

There are over 10,000 Associates; their Target for
1946 is to enrol l0,000 new members. They have their
'own Magazine, " The Associate," which tells of the work
which is done by energetic Associates, and acknowledges
officially their many efforts in support of our Great
Work. It also keeps them informed about the many
activities of other P.D.S.A. Departments, and practical
information about the care of Animals, and articles of
general interest to all Animal lovers will also be found
in its pages. The price is 2/6 per annum, post free.

From earliest days, Associates have been a strong band of
active workers who have never failed the P.D.S.A., even in
darkest days, and no words can adequately express our gratitude

to them for their service.

THE P.D.S.A. COLLECTING BOX HOLDERS.

This Department is gaining in strength, and is a
valuable asset to the P.D.S.‘A. Unfortunately during the
War, 1,254 Holders had their homes blitzed and their
Boxes were destroyed. But we are gaining ground again,
and even war—workers from abroad, who are returning
to their own countries, are taking Boxes with them—some
r aﬁeld as Karachi and Saskatchewan.

Our sincere thanks are due to our-Box Holders for their

constant efforts to ﬁll their Boxes and so to take a share in raising
the necessary money for the support of the P.D.S.A.

to places as fa

3|

 




. . , .. _,

A FEW P,D.S.A. TECHNICAL OFFICERS.

Lack of space prevents a longer list of Ofﬁcers with equally long Service.

 

       

 

Chief Supt. Gaunt. Service: Chief. Supt. Steele. Ser- Supt. Cronin. Service:
19 years. Postings: London vice: 22 years. Postings: 19 years. Postings: Lon-
Area, Dover, Canterbury, London Area, Ports- don Area, York, Ports-
Chatham, Whitstable, I-Ierne mouth, I. of Wight, mouth, I. of Wight, Dutch
Bay. In charge of the Hastings, Sanatorium. East Indies. Now in
P.D.S.A. in Tangier. Now Con- Now in charge of charge of the P.D.S.A.
sultant Supt. of Technical P.D.S.A. Social Work. Technical Staff.

Activities and in Charge of
the P.D.S.A. Sanatorium.

 

 

 

Supt. Bolton. Service: 19 Supt. Bedford- Service: 20
years. Postings: London years. Postings: Stepney,
Area, New Forest, Not- London Area. In charge of
tingham, Bootle, Birm- Hospital at 14, Commercial
ingham. Now South Road, E. Wolverhampton,
Coast Area Supt. Liverpool. In charge of

.‘ P.D.S.A. in Roumania for 3
‘ years. S. Wales Area.

Glasgow.

32

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Supt. Bloom. Service: 19
. years. Postings: Stepney,
Stoke-on-Trent, London
Area, Portsmouth, Lon-
don Area. In charge of
P.D.S.A. Tangier and

then Cairo.

Supt. Horne, Service: 18

years. Postings: London

Sanatorium. In charge of

P.D.S.A. work in Paris
since I93].

Supt. Quarrington. Ser-
vice: 18 years. Postings:
London Area. Later in
charge of E. London
Dispensaries. Southend.
Tangier since 1936.

t8

 

Supt. Cremins.

years. Postings:
Kent Area, London

 

Bath. Since 1930, Lecturer

at the Sanatorium on Animal

Diseases and Homoeopathy.

Now in charge of the Training
at the Sanatorium.

33

Service: I 8 Supt. Lewis. Service: I 6
Stepney, years. Postings: London
Area, Later charge of 5 C.
London Dispensaries. Area

Supt. in Leeds. In charge of
P.D.S.A. in Jerusalem until,
to our great sorrow, he was
shot by Arabs when on duty.

 




 

THE P.D.S.A.‘ HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES.

ANIMAIS’

LONDON:
P.D.S.A. Sanatorium, Ilford,
Essex. Tel. Wanstead 0011.

BATH:
4, Newark Street.
Tel. Bath 3475.

BIRMINGHAM:

15, Islington Row.

Five Ways.
Tel. Midland 1861.

HOSPITALS.

BRIGHTON:
3, Montague Place.
Tel. Brighton 5285.

NOTTINGHAM:
Abbey Street, Dunkirk.
Tel. Nottingham 75787.

[Note: There are Dispensaries for

Out Patients at these Hospitals.]

W

LONDON DISPENSARIES.

ACTON:
42, Birkbeck Road, W.3.
Tel. Acorn 1618.

BARKING:

122, Fanshawe Avenue.

BECONTREE:
“The Old Robin Hood.”
174, Bennett’s Castle Lane.
Tel. Seven Kings 2666.

BERMONDSEY:
154, St. James’s Road, S.E.l

CAMDEN TOWN:
106, Camden Mews.
York Way, N.W.l.

CHISWICK:
2a, Holly Road, W.4.
Tel. Chiswick 4055.

EALING:
45a, The Mall, W.5.
Tel. Ealing 2735.

EAST HAM:
1, Church Road,
Manor Park, 13.12.
Tel. llford 0312.

EDGWARE:
59, High Street, Middlesex.
Tel. Edgware 1103.
FINCHLEY:
640, High Road, N.12.
FULHAM:

293, New King’s Road,
S.W.6.

PROVINCIAL
BEDFORDSHIRE:
Luton: 70, Alma Street.
Tel. Luton 3126.

CHESHIRE:
Stalybridge: 25, Castle St.
DURHAM. '
Gateshead: 67, High West

Street.

Jarrow: 30, Grange Road.

GREENWICH:
322, Creek 'Road, S.E.10.

HENDON:
119, Brent Street, N.W.4.

HIGHGATE:
78, Junction Road, N.19.
Tel. Archway 2903.

LAMBETH 5.:
174, Wandsworth Road,
S.W.8. Tel. Macaulay 5052.

LEYTONSTONE:
226, High Road, 13.11.
Tel. Maryland 4401.
PLAISTOW:
311,.Barking Road.

ROMFORD:
94, Victoria Road.
Tel. Romford 5505.

STEPNEY:
542, Commercial Road, E.1.
Tel. Stepney Green 2843.
TOOTING:
4a, Gatton Road, S.W.17.

WALTHAMSTOW:
426, Hoe Street, 13.17.

WILLESDEN GREEN:
184, High Road, N.W.10.
WIMBLEDON:
2b, Stanley Road, S.W.19.
Tel. Liberty 5983.
WOOLWICH:
1, Thomas Street, S.E.18.

DISPENSARIES.
'OXFORDSHIRE.
Oxford: 41, George Street.
Tel. Oxford 2715.

SOMERSETSHIRE.
Bath: 4, Newark Street.
Tel. Bath 3475.
STAFF ORDSHIRE.
Bilston: 23, Hall Street.
Stoke-on-Trent: Cross St.
Tel. 48334.

34

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

ESSEX. ' : ml
Benfleet: 4, Hopes Green,
London Road.
Southend: 452,
church Road.
GLOUCESTERSHIRE.
Bristol: 65, Stapleton Road.
Tel. Bristol 38026.

South-

HAMPSHIRE.
Boscombe: 34, Seabourne
Road.
Tel. Seabourne 1077.
Portsmouth:

Ordnance Row, Portsea.
Tel. Portsmouth 73460.
7, New Road.
Southampton:
49, South Front.
Tel. Southampton 3660.
HERTFORDSHIRE.
Watford: 121a, St. Albans
Road.
Tel. Watford 7056.
KENT.
Chatham: 121, The Brook.
Tel. Chatham 4054.
Gillingham: 20, Mill Road.
Tel. Gillingham 59132.
Maidstone: 21, Market St.
Tel. Maidstone 3433.
Whitstable: 2 7 , Middle
Wall.
LANCASHIRE.
Manchester: 26, Oxford Rd.
Tel. Central 7501.
Salford: 7, Broad Street,
Pendleton, Salford 6.
Tel. Pendleton 2498.

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE.
Nottingham: 25, Carlton
Road.
Tel. Nottingham 43812.
NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.
Northampton: 14, Horse-
market.

Wolverhampton: 15, Bell
Street. Tel. 21112.
SUSSEX.
Brighton: 16, Oxford Street.
Tel. Brighton 3616.
3, Montague Place.
Tel. Brighton 5285.
Hastings: 82, High Street.
Tel. Hastings 2524.
WARWICKSHIRE.
Birmingham: 15, Islington
Row, Five Ways.
Tel. Midland 1861.
134a, Soho Hill.
267, Lichﬁeld St., Aston.

Coventry: 8, Ford Street.
YORKSHIRE:

Batley: 'Wellington Street.

Bradford: 70, Great Horton

Road. .
Tel. Bradford 11273.

Hull: 33, Beverley Road.

Tel. Hull 11677.
Leeds: 3, Dewsbury Road.
Tel. Leeds 26537.
Middlesbrough: 59, Cor-
poration Road. Tel. 4224.
Redcar: 71, Lord Street.
SCOTLAND.
Glasgow: 5, Windsor Terrace.
Emergency No. Douglas 0643.
. (Headquarters).

724, London Rd., Bridgton.

1266, Duke St., Parkheacl.

305, Glasgow Road, Clyde-

bank.

Animal Ambulance.
Dundee: 212, Overgate.

Tel. Dundee 3996.
WALES.
Aberavon Port Talbot:

6, Green Park Street.
Maesteg: 50, Commercial Rd.
Swansea: 26, Alexandra Road.

Tel. Swansea 4618.

P.D.S.A. MOTOR CARAVAN DISPENSARIES ARE STATIONED
AT -

Brighton, Leeds, Birmingham,

.Swansea, Bi-istol, Bath, and

the P.D.S.A. Sanatorium.

SMALL ANIMAL AMBULANCES AT:

Wolverhampton,
Portsmouth, and the P.D.S.A. Sanatorium.

Glasgow, Manchester,

Notts,

Birmingham,

ABROAD. .
EGYPT: P.D.S.A. HOSpital, Abbassia, Cairo.

Dispensary: Boulac; also Caravan Servxce.

FRANCE: Hospital: Bievres.

Dispensaries: Les Lilas, Paris.

9, Bis Rue de la Bucherie, Paris.

MOROCCO: Hospital: Wallers Fondak, Tangier.
PALESTINE: Hospital: Birket-es-Sultan, Jerusalem; also Caravan

Service.

STAFF RECALLED FROM FOLLOWING FOR DURATION OF
WAR:

Irish Free State, Greece, Cape Town, Roumania, and the Dutch ‘

East Indies.

 




 

 

   

This Dog was owned by a poor woman who lived alone. She was

taken to a mental home. The Authorities asked the P.D.S.A. to

look after her Animal, which was taken to the Sanatorium. On

the second day she had 10 Puppies. As we were informed that

the woman would not be returning we found good homes for this
little mother and four of her-Puppies.

 

     

This Dog was brought into

the P.D.S.A. Sanatorium After a raid this Horse was buried in the

after a motor ac.c1dent. Its debris. When the P.D.S.A. found him 4
wounds were stitched and only the head could be seen. It took our

dressed: and later the

Rescue Squad three hours to extricate 3
owners were found and the h'

rm. He sustained lacerations of the 5
Dog returned to] them when Withers and shoulder and is here seen
cure .

after treatment in the Sanatorium.

36

 

 




 

 

 

 

CONCLUSION.

In describing the War-work of the P.D.S.A. in this
Report, our ﬁrst thought is one of gratitude to our Sub-
scribers for contributing so generously towards our
support during the dark days of conﬂict: and to the many
workers who stood by us so well with their practical help,
in. addition to the many War-time demands made upon
their time and strength. -

The Report contains only an outline of our effort,
of which it is impossible to give a full account; but we
think enough has been said to give some idea of the diﬂi-
culties and strain through which we have passed; and
also that through its War-work the P.D.S.A. is more
ﬁrmly established to-day in the hearts of the people than
ever before.

We are now faced with a future full of peace-time
difﬁcuities. Dispensaries and Hospitals, destroyed or
partially destroyed, must be re-built: Caravans, Am-
bulances and other vehicles repaired and re-equipped:
Staﬁ problems solved: our Income uncertain owing to the
ﬁnancial unrest in the country.

On returning to countries abroad, some seething
with political troubles and disturbances, we are faced with
the absence of most of our supporters who made it poss-
ible, by their inﬂuence, for the P.D.S.A. to function in
their respective countries. Fresh friends have to be
found, and new negotiations made with those in authority.

But the brighter side of our work—what is it?

It is that at home and in the countries in which
we work,

THE PEOPLE WANT US.

They trust in us and eagerly seek our help.
In visiting what are known as “ Danger Zones ”
the P.D.S.A. needs no protection for we are now a
part of the life of the people and are welcomed by

them :
and

The state of the Animals is vastly different after the
P.D.S.A. has been at work for a short while; for our

37

 




 

advice about the care of their Animals is willingly and
eagerly accepted by their owners.

, ' and also

The children of many nationalities love the P.D‘.S.A.
Many thousands of them bring their Animals and
learn to care for them. Through the P.D.S.A. a new
generation is growing up with a love for Animals, a
sensitiveness towards their pain, and a sincere desire
.to help and protect them. ‘

MUST SUCH A FAR-REACHING WORK
CEASE FOR LACK OF MONEY?

MUST OUR PIONEER LABOUR BE LOST FOR
LACK OF SUPPORT?

We cannot believe it: for the P.D.S.A. must go
forward, not only in Great Britain, but Abroad also.

Here at home almost daily we receive urgent requests to
open Dispensaries, and the reports sent to us of the con-
ditions of the Animals in some districts are so distressing
that it is really heartbreaking to be unable to send help.
And Abroad; the many letters received from members
of our Staff who have been serving in the Forces, and
the reports from those who have returned home, all tell
of the misery and suffering of the Animals in the coun-
tries in which they have served. These accounts are
aimost too dreadful to read.

 

Overwhelming work awaits us. Go we must
sooner or later, and our great comfort is that in any part
of the world where we have worked, our coming has
brought about the dawning of a new day for the Animals.

M. E. DICKIN,

Founder and Hon: Director.

 

 

DEEDS OF COVENANT

A steadily increasing number of our subscribers
are paying their subscriptions under Deeds of
Covenant. They realise that by doing so the Society
can recover Income Tax upon their subscriptions,
and that with tax at 9/1 in the £ every pound paid
under Deed of Covenant becomes £1 16s. 4d. gross
when we have recovered the tax. Inquiries will be
very gladly answered from our Head Ofﬁce.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Walbrook Supplies Co.. London.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

" THE TWELVE WAYS”
in which
YOU can help the P. D. S..A

BECOMING A SUBSCRIBER
BECOMING AN ASSOCIATE
TAKING A COLLECTING BOX
SUBSCRIBING TO “ THE ANIMALS’ MAGAZINE ”
HELPING ON FLAG DAYS
UNDERTAKING A HOUSE TO HOUSE COLLECTION
DONATING GIFTS TO BE SOLD FOR THE P.D.S.A.
ENROLLING YOUR CHILDREN AS BUSY BEES
JOINING THE BIRTHDAY FLORIN FUND
ENROLLING AS A NATIONAL ANIMAL GUARD

11. INTERESTING YOUR FRIENDS IN THE P.D.S.A.

12. A BEQUEST IN YOUR WILL.
Full details of any of these Twelve Ways” will gladly

be sent on receipt of a post card to the P...DSA.,14,
Clifford St” London, W. 1

messeswrr'

ﬂ
.°

Bankers Orders are a most convenient way of paying
annual subscriptions. You are saved the trouble and
expense of sending us your subscription, which I: done
for you by your Bankers, and we are saved the expense
of sending you a reminder when it becomes due. We
acknowledge all such payments provided we are ﬁrst
given the opportunity of recording them. Bankers
Orders can be used to subscribe to any fund whether i
at Head Ofﬁce or a local Dispensary. You will ﬁnd a 1'
form of Bankers Order in this Report. I?

w r—u—M- "...... mm“w.__~., ...-......” WJ . I
«u _- ......n _ ....
.K -_.-..-.... ...... --.... _. I _'
.... “.... “...-.. .-.—.... .— .... ...—...-

-... ...m..r...... ...... .-...-m 1
-Wg-.m “0......“ .-...nm do...” ....

SOME P. D. S. A. PUBLICATIONS
THE ANIMALS MAGAZINE. The ofﬁcial Journal of the P D. s A.

I BANKERS ORDERS
I

L

Illustrated. Price 3d. monthly.
THE BUSY BEES NEWS. The ofﬁcial organ of the Children's
Branch of the PWDSA Price 1d. monthiy.

THE ASSOCIATE. The ofﬁcial Organ of the Associate Movement.
Price 2s. 6d. per annum post free.

THE CRY OF THE ANIMAL. A brief history of the P. D. S ..A up
to I942, by Mrs. M. E. Dickin. OWBE Price 23.

u ” V l t A. Peam
WITHOUT ARE DOGS. Short Story by Fife: 6d. ’0“ free
CAN ANIMALS SUPPER ? by Mrs. M. E. Dickin. 0.3.5. Price 13.
ARE ANIMALS GIVEN AN AFTER LIFE ? by Frieda 1e Fla.
Price ls. post free.
These Publications can be obtained from P.D.S.A. Head Ofﬁce.
14. Clifford Street, London. W

 




 

 

 

 

 




