   

THE GNAT AND THE CAMEL‘

 

What I Saw in a

AND

 

Great Abattoir at

Omaha, Nebraska

 

An address given by Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President of the Massachusetts Society

for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Boston, Massachusetts, before The

Am ' an Humane Association in Convention at Omaha,
Nebraska, October 28, 1920.

MR. PRESIDENT: I have a painful
task before me. During all the years
through which I have been more or less
engaged in public speaking I have
never been so oppressed with any theme
as the one that I am to dwell upon this
morning, and never has this theme so
oppressed me as since I came to this
city. ,

I beg you to understand in what Igsay
I am attacking no individual, rather a
system. And yet it cannot be denied

that individual men are responsible for,

the system. If the employees of a

corporation are guilty of acts that shock
the moral sense of fair minded men, no
one will deny that either these acts are
authorized or permitted; or, if done

    

Without the knowledge of the ofﬁcials
in charge, that then the guilt rests upon
those whose business it is to knew the
methods pursued by their employees in
carrying out their purposes.

Many years ago, before your day and
mine, there were certain people of whom
it was said that, having religiously
strained the gnat out of their wine, they
never saw the camel, and swallowed him
whole. It seems to me that as societies
organized to guard the animals about us
from cruelty we have spent too much
of our time straining'-*out-:the~gnat and
too little getting rid- of :ther camel's: One
gigantic cruelty faces us in every city
and town of the land. True, it sometimes
hides itself in the woods, secretes itself

 




 

in out-of—the-way places, conceals itself
behind the mask of the night, but with
_ brazen effrontery it also builds its torture
chambers close to the hearts of great
cities, and invites the curious public
to witness its atrocities.

A Powerful, Far Reaching System

Attack it in court, compel it to protect
itself against legislation that would
lessen its crimes, and it sends into the
.court room and before the legislative
committees the ablest legal talent money
can buy. Stand up against it, and you
ﬁnd you are facing corporate interests
representing more millions of dollars
than the societies for which you speak have
cents. “Interfere with our business,
cruel as you afﬁrm it is,” they tell the
court, and the legislature, “and you
drive us from your community, and rob
yourselves of the great revenue you
receive from us in taxes and in'pay'rolls.”
This huge commercial agent of cruelty
iof which I am speaking is ' really an
octopus spreading its far-reaching claws
into every State of the Union, grasping
and controlling hundreds of smaller
but allied interests.

Confronting this super-cruelty, this
one cruelty that dwarfs all others, that
overtops and outb‘ulks ‘all others put
together, what have We been doing?
For the most part, straining out gnats.
We have built here and there an animal
shelter to receive the abandoned deg and
cat. This we ought to have done. We
have prosecuted the pitiless driver who
has beaten his herse, or set the heavy
collar on a raw and bleeding \neck.
This, too, ,We ought. to have done. We
have scattered a few seeds of humane

education and distributed some humane
literature. This also we ought to have
done. But before this supreme cruelty
we have done really nothing. We have
talked about it at our conventions. We
have appointed committees. But con-
ditions remain in the wide ﬁeld where-
this cruelty does its work substantially
as they were ﬁfty years ago, before
Henry Bergh and George T. Angell un-
sheathed their shining swords.

Need I say any more about the gnat
and the camel? .You know the thing
I have in mind. I am thinking of the
cruelties associated with the transporta—
tion and slaughter of the animals butch-
ered annually in the United States for
human food. How big is the problem?

Millions Slaughtered Annually

According to the government reports
for 1919, there were killed for food in
the United States during those twelve
months, in round numbers, besides a
quarter of a million goats, 9,000,000
calves, 13,500,000 cattle, 16,500,000 sheep
and lambs, and 71,000,000 swine; -a
total of something over 110,000,000.
A ’ hundred and ten millions! What
does that mean to us? How many
stars did you ever see with your unaided
eye on the clearest night? Never more
than three thousand. Who can think in
millions? Put these animals in line
according to their average length, allow
siX inches only between them as they

’wind on day and night, summer and

winter, to the “blood—stained «shambles.
How long a line would you have? Would
it reach from New York to San Francisco?
Would it cover a trail tWice as far, from
Alaska to Maine? That line would
reach seven and one half times around

‘_ : u. \ A, - C2 .
‘ , t 'I "w: 3‘; j“. ‘.. '5
V - .._ ’ ”a. 1‘ g . _ '- .

j 55-, HQ?)

 

 

 

 




ICDCD‘QCDCD

CD‘qcp

KP U“ C1“

e'vvc‘

\V ‘F- ‘Q gr .

 

 

 

 

 

the globe. Think of it! Follow it in
imagination. Dream of it. Who is re-
sponsible for it? You and I and every
other eater of meat. I am not speaking
from the point of view of a vegetarian.
It’s the cruelty that concerns me now.

How are these animals killed? With
the exception of the 13,500,000 of large
beef animals, which are generally knocked
in the head before their throats are cut,
except where the Jewish method prevails,
and part of the 9,000,000 calves, all the
16,500,000 sheep and lambs, and all the
71,000,000 swine, nearly all this line
reaching seven and one-half times around
the globe, driven, hurried, prodded,
frightened on their way to their sad doom,
are jerked up by a hind ankle, and, so
suspended, their throats are cut and they
are left to bleed to death. How long
does consciousness persist after the knife
thrust? From one and one-half to three
and one-half minutes. The things I
am to tell you today about the way
these animals are killed are not founded
upOn What I‘ have read, but only upon
what I have‘seen. '1 ‘ i

I have been through the abattoirs of
Chicago and many of those across the
water. Fearing that I might do an in-
justice to the slaughtering institutions
of this city, I spent last Monday at
one of the great abattoirs in Omaha'
I thought I knew something of the
brutality that was possible in the
destruction of animals killed for food,
but I saw there deeds of savage cruelty
that surpass anything I had witnessed
either in this country or in Europe, and
that burned themselves so deeply into
my memory that I can never forget
them were I to live a thousand years.

 

Let me tell you how they did it in this
slaughterhouse while I was present.
One does not see these things, I imagine,
as a rule, when personally conducted.
I am quite certain they did not take you
where I went when you accepted your
invitation to visit the Stock—yards.

You will gain some idea of the vast—
ness of this problem when you know that
on Monday and Tuesday of this week,
during the ﬁrst two days of this Con-
vention, eighty thousand cattle, sheep,
and swine came into the these stock
yards. Painful and pitiful as the picture
may be, you must let me describe it
as well as I can.

Spraying to Increase Pain

Look yonder into this room, half as
large possibly as this hall. There are
perhaps ﬁfty or more cattle standing
there waiting their turn to die. As fast
as they will pass into the slaughter pen,
others Will take their places. Water
is falling in a ﬁne spray over them from
pipes attached to the ceiling. I said to
the man who was taking me about, “It
isn’t hot enough today to spray these
animals.” I marveled at the kindness
that ’had suggested this cooling process
for days of excessive heat, and wondered
if it had sprung. from compassion, or
from the purpose to beneﬁt, in some way,
the ﬂesh of the victims whose excited
and fevered condition in these last mo-
ments might injure the meat for food.

“Oh,” he said, “We don’t spray them
to get them cool, but the hair is so thick
that unless we 'wet it down it is such a
poor conductor for our. electric punches
they don’t get'enough of the shock.”

 




 

Opening from this pen is a door through
which may be hurried a Certain number
of animals into a passage-way perhaps
.six feet wide and sixty feet long. These
ﬁgures are only approximations. When
the passage or alley—way is full, there are
doors that are dropped which divide
it into compartments, each containing
four cattle. These doors are lifted as
the animals are rushed out of the spray-
ing room of which I have spoken. How
are they started into the death chamber?
By an electric prod that is sufﬁciently
powerful and terrifying to hurry them
in at the speed of a dead run. All the
way down the line at every few feet
stands a man with one of these prods
who shoves it onto them, hustling them
along as fast as their legs can carry them.

“How powerful is the shock ‘of this
electric prod?” I asked.

Shock Will Knock Down a Bull

“Put it on a bull’s neck in the right
place, and it will knock him to the
ground, ” said one of the men. “The
thinner animals, that is, those poor in
ﬂesh, are often knocked down when it
touches them. ” This is What I was
told by one of the men who was using
the prod, and he was not contradicted
by two others who heard him.

When the space is ﬁlled, the doors are
dropped. The animals while I was
there were often so large it was almost
impossible to get four inside a compart-
ment. A man who stood next to me
must have been at least forty seconds
trying to get one big steer under the door
so it could shut down. At ﬁrst I thought
he would not succeed. The steer could
not make room for himself. The prod

was held against him, however, until.
he bellowed and screamed—that is the
only word by which I can describe the
noise—as if in torment. At last, tor-
tured by the continuous shock, he ram-
med his way in far enough by jamming
the other three until one of them was
nearly crushed double; then the door
fell behind him.

I had seen these prods in Chicago.
There they did not seem to affect the
cattle by any means as seriously, and
I am told there the men sometimes use
them on each other in sport. Nothing

could make me believe, however, no .

matter how the current may have been
reduced since then, that, on the day of
which I have been speaking, the shock
was not a violent and torturing. one.
Animals do not cry out with such sounds
as I can still hear ringing in my ears,
from a slight prick of an electric wire.

I had supposed these animals were to
be stunned with some degree of humane-
ness. I 'had seen them in Chicago
where they came one by one, so that,
With little room to move their heads,
the man standing by the animal had a
pretty fair chance to strike the one blow
that generally dropped them to the ﬂoor.

But mark the situation here. Four
animals are standing in one of these
compartments with their heads in various
positions relative to the man with the
poleax, who is on a platform raised a
little above them. He is now about to
give the so-called stunning blows. He
watches his chance for a head sufﬁciently
at rest to strike it. He chooses a head.
(I am describing Carefully what I saw,
nothing else.) He strikes one blow.




It is not in the right spot. It is just

above the eye. ‘Theisteer does not fall.

He strikes again. This time the victim
goes to his knees, but recovers himself
and turns his head out of reach of the
poleax. Unable to ﬁnish with this steer,
the man strikes at another. Two blows
send him to the ﬂoor. By this time the
ﬁrst one has moved back within reach.
Another blow, and he drops, rises again,
and ﬁnally the fourth blow sends him
down. There are two left whose heads
have not yet been near enough to war-
rant an attempt, at hitting them. With
their two fellows down, but struggling

in their death agony, one of these at’

last looks up into our very faces, and
then with a crash the iron descends, and
he lies prone with the other two. The
fourth steer is felled, but only after being
struck twice, once too low down, and
once in the fatal center between the eyes.
Of the four, one ‘went down with one
blow of the poleax, two with two blows,
and one with four.*.

Behind me in the other compartments
where the poor cattle were being knocked
down the same method was being fol—
lowed. How many blows each received
I cannot tell. It may have been less;
it may have been more.

That such conditions prevail every
day, I cannot say, of course. The man
with the poleax, by whose side I stood,
may have had an “off day. ” He may
have been a new man. Nothing would
indicate either supposition so far as I
could learn from him. ‘He‘ said nothing
in the way, of ,apology for his failures to
kill with a single, blow, and, what is

 

*Some of these animals I saw killed were large cows

fattened for beef.

more, I did not see how a man, leaning
over four cattle free to move their heads
as these were, could be sure of his blow
more than about once in three times.

Steer Struggles 9% Minutes

I had seen enough of this sickening
attempt at stunning. I retraced my
steps down the line and out onto the
small platform from which I could watch
these dying animals as they slid out onto
the slaughtering ﬂoor, when the doors
at the side of the compartments were
lifted. They were still kicking, strug-
gling, some of them violently. I am
perfectly willing to admit that with the
most of them it was the spasmodic
muscular contractions of an unconscious
and dying life. But one steer was paw—
ing and kicking so vigorously that I
expected him to get up on his feet at
any moment. I took out my watch,
and between the time I ﬁrst observed
him, as his supposedly unconscious body
landed from the compartment onto the
ﬂoor where the animals are pulled up
by the hind legs to have their throats
cut, and the time when his struggles
had sufﬁciently subsided so that anyone
dared go near enough his heels to fasten
the chain about his legs, it was nine and
a half minutes. One of the employees
told me——this I am only quoting—that
there were times when they had to send
to the platform above for one of the
poleaX men to come and knock some
steer in the head again, lest he get upon
his feet and become uncontrollable.

I thought, when visiting the slaughter»
pens in Cuba some years ago where they
practise the nape stab, that is, drive a
two-edged knife into the neck behind the

 

 




I

 

horns and directly over the termina-
tion of the spinal column, that that was
the most horrible thing in the way of
killing cattle I should ever see, for while
the nape stab destroys the power. of
motion, it does not destroy consciousness,
but the horrors of this abattoir I have
seen surpassed even the tortures of
Havana’s merciless shambles.

Now add to this the cruelties connected
with their transportation to the slaughter
pens. The vast majority of them are
driven from the farm and the ranch to
the yards of the railroads. There, by
men who could hardly be humane if
they‘would, they are forced, by blows
and twistings of the tail, by kick and
curse, into cars, and then started on
the long, slow journey—through the
heat of summer, through the cold of
winter, too often suffering from all the
pangs of thirst and hunger, often dying
in their cars from the heat, sometimes
reaching their journey’s end frozen stiff
Within the slatted bars of their traveling
prisons.

What are we going to do about it?
What ought we to do about it? What
is the one clear, deﬁnite goal we must
seek if we are to be in any sense true
to the cause we represent?

Cruelties of Transportation

The transportation problem I cannot
dwell upon. The cruelties connected
with it are inevitably a part of the very
business itself. They are inherent in
it. You can’t transport millions of
animals and do it even decently save
at an expense absolutely prohibitive.
The only remedy is ultimately the
slaughtering of these animals at the

nearest possible point to the place where
they are born and bred. To transport
millions of them alive for a thousand or
more miles, as is done from Chicago to
the Atlantic seaboard, to be butchered
there, is a wholly unnecessary cruelty.
Is it cheaper than to ship the dressed
product in refrigerator cars? Then it’s
a question of justice and humanity over
against dollars and dividends.

But the other side of the problem.
What are humanity, duty, and our
sacred trust as humane societies calling
upon us to undertake with regard to
this supreme cruelty? They bid us
organize our forces to secure such legis-
lation as shall compel the stunning, or
rendering unconscious by Some humane
method, of every one of these unfortunate
victims of man’s appetite, before the thrust
of the knife. If we are to demand this
sacriﬁce of life for food, every sentiment
of justice and fair play cries out against
us as recreant and false to our manhood
and womanhood until we have secured
for these food animals the humanest pos-
sible treatment from the ranch and the
farm to the slaughterhouse, and then
the least possible painful death.

This is the one imperative task that
lays its burden upon the humane so-
cieties of our land today. Supreme be-
cause it outweighs in cruelty all the others
put together. Germany, whatever our
prejudices, has been thirty years ahead
of England and France and America
in her methods of slaughter.

Her great public abattoirs have been
superintended by graduates of her uni—
versities. She has insisted upon the
stunning of the animals in these abat-
toirs. Everything that science cOuld

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

suggest has been done to save the ani-
mals from fright and suffering, that the
ﬂesh might reach her people in the
healthiest possible condition and free
from those toxic changes due, to} pain
and fright. These vast public abat-
toirs are models of cleanliness, and the
sanitary conditions are as near ideal
as they can be made.

Think of where we stand as a civilized
country in this matter; look at Denmark,
where a law is now pending to compel
the painless death of even all poultry
and ﬁsh; at Sweden, Where replies from
every abattoir written to, state that
all food animals are stunned before
slaughter; at Finland, Where stunning
must precede the knife; at Switzerland,
where all animals are stunned; ‘and in
Iceland, not only must all animals be
stunned before being bled, but they
may not be killed in each other’s presence.
Here is one instance at least where a
man should be ashamed to be 10-0 per
cent American. Better be 50 per cent
American and at least 50 per cent hu-
mane.

What are the chief opposing forces
that array themselves against us in this
struggle we can no longer escape? First,
the great packing industries of the coun-
try who will not slacken the speed of the
vast killing machine by an hour, lest
their proﬁts be cut some fraction of one
per cent. Beside the dollar they seek,
the suffering of their victims is but as
the small dust in the balance. Only
faith in the right and in the average
human heart will carry us through to
victory. Once let the facts be known,

and men and women will demand that~

money shall not outweigh justice " and
compassion.

Opposition of Hebrews

The second hostile force that must be
overcome is the opposition of the He-
brew. According to his religious teach-
ing, based not on any direct scriptural
authority, but largely upon tradition
and the oral law, no animal to be used
for food may be stunned before being
slaughtered. N 0 man honors the J ew-
ish race more than I. No man recog-
nizes more quickly the unpayable debt
humanity owes the Jew. He has given ‘
us in our religion the sublimest heritage
we possess. His contribution to civili-
zation outranks a thousandfold all that
Greece and Rome have left us. But
though he may claim, as he often does,
that the deep knife wound made across
the throat of - the living animal, ﬁrst
thrownand then half suspended by a
rope around a hind leg, is an easy death,
and a humane one, he stands contra—
dicted by the testimony of a hundred
scientiﬁc experiments and the testi-
mony of unnumbered unprejudiced men
who have witnessed the practice, and
by that ofﬁcial body appointed years
ago by the English Parliament to in-
vestigate the whole subject of slaughter.
Can there be any question as to which
is the less cruel plan, to be struck one
sudden blow that ends all consciousness,
and then to have the body, past all power
of sensation, freed of its blood by the
knife, or to be jerked from the ﬂoor by
rope or chain around your ankle, and.
left half suspended in the air, and While
still conscious, to have your throat cut?

The time permitted me has made it




 

possible for me to do little more than
outline the subject before us—to state
simply the boldest and most palpable
facts.

What shall we do? Each state and
local society can do its part. Learn
the facts. Crowd them without weary-
ing upon the largest number of men and
women that can be reached. Introduce
a humane slaughtering bill into its state
legislature, no matter how many times
defeated in the attempt. Though beaten
you will be creating public opinion.
You will set men thinking. You will
. get publicity in the press. This battle
can only be won after many a defeat,
but won it must be at last. Slavery
perished, but how long before its ﬁnal
doom? Who would have believed that
prohibition could have come so speedily?
How little the women who organized
against it years ago dreamed of so near
a victory! How did they succeed? They

kept at it. They never faltered before
defeat. They worked and prayed and
agitated, and they triumphed. Now
that they have the ballot, we shall have
a mighty reinforcement for every humane
effort we shall undertake.

But this task is primarily a national
one. It is for the American Humane
Association to organize the societies of
this country into an aggressive campaign
that shall carry the struggle to the very
ﬂoor of Congress, and keep at it year
after year till justice and compassion
and mercy be proved mightier than
vested interests, and until the plea of
that sad procession, 181,000 miles long,
of cattle, sheep, and swine, reaching
seven. and a half times around the world,
marching to their hell of suffering,
shall drown the cry of the god of the
market-place who would coin even need-
less pain into gold.

[Published by The American Humane Association of Albany, N. Y.]

[Copies may‘also be obtained from the American Humane Education Society
’ 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 17, Mass.]

 




