 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

December, 1938. Price 30'. ,

THE

ANIMALS
F

Photo by] Spank/5. U. H. Stone

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE

1 FEATHERSTONE BUILDINGS, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.l
S ubsmption for One Y ear, 100.67 free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS” FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND 2's pablz'sbed womb/j by [be Nafloaal Coaaez'l for Animals’ Welfare
at I Fealbersz‘oae Balldz'ags, f-lz'gb Holbora, Loadoa, W1C .I, and all eoazmam'eaz‘loas regarding
z‘be magazine sboald be addressed fo lbe Editor.

Edz'for: ROBERT H. SPURRIER.

CONTENTS.

Page
“ NECESSARY?” CRUELTY. Tbe Editor . 40
FROM FOE To FRIEND. L. S. Elion‘ . . 41
A LIVING CURIOSITY . . . 42
LUTHER AND THE LOST DOG. A. L. Curtis 4 3

HORRORS OF THE FUR TRADE. Kalbarz'ae
Cox . . . . . . 44

ROCKY . . . . . . . 45
To MARKET, To MARKET . . .E. G. Barlow 47
FROM ONLOOKER’S NOTE BOOK. Oaloo/éer 48

GREAT CRESTED GREBE AND CORNCRAKE.
Calberz'ae 2%. Clark . . . . 49

CALLING PADGE. F. V. Cole . . . 50
JULES MICHELET. Basil Haroey- arr/es . 52

ELECTROCUTION: How WE CAN TELL
WHEN IT IS HUMANE? C. W. Hume

WORLD DAY FOR ANIMALS—GREECE

NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WEL—
FARE . . . .

THE LIBRARY TABLE . . . .

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS '

LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION
SPORTS . . . .

HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

PIT PONIES’ PROTECTION SOCIETY .

SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR PREVENTION OF
' VIVISECTION

CORRESPONDENCE

OF CRUEL

 

The Late Mr. Sidney H. Beard.

Amother loss has been sustained by the animal
welfare movement in the passing of Mr. Sidney H.
Beard, the Founder and President of “ The Order of
the Golden Age.” Mr. Beard instituted the Order
some forty years ago and it has become one of the
most important organisations associated with the
Food Reform movement. '

The objects of the Order are “ to lessen and prevent
suffering by practical means and to promote Health,
Humaneness, Spitituality and Unity,” and in them are
reflected the outlook and ideals of the Founder which
the Order seeks to disseminate “ by teaching the Laws
of Health and of Life on all planes,” and “ by advocating
the Fruitarian system of living.” It strives to promote
a return to the natural diet, not only because the habit
of ﬂesh—eating causes an incalculable amount of illness
and suffering, but because “ it is a brutal and cruel
habit, involving the unnecessary massacre of millions
of animals.” Civilised people, Mr. Beard contended,
if they pause to think, “ must realise that they cannot
eat ‘ blood—stained ’ food with a clear conscience,
since they are under the ethical obligation to be
humane.”

To promote the beneficent and far—reaching work
of the Order Mr. Beard devoted his entire life, and his
passing is indeed a heavy blow to his friends, colleagues,
and to the Order. It is good to know that the Order
will continue its work from No. 155, Brompton

Road, SW]. 3.

Furs and the Woman.

Last year, according to the News C/Jroaz'ele of August
1st, {16,663,683 worth of furs were imported into
this country, an advance of £3,000,000 on 1936, and
7£7,000,000 more than in 1935. Altogether, we are
told, 150 kinds of fur skins from the wilds of many
countries and from fur—breeding farms and ranches
are sent to I.ond0n—-—the hub of the fur trade of the
world—~but only about fifty are of fashion import—
ance.

Furs, says the Airs Cbrom'ele article, are “ the height
of most women’s sartorial ambitions.”

Can these women realise the cost of its fur in suffer—
ing to the trapped animal, or do they know and not
care? The trappers’ literature shows that they are
mostly caught with steel traps; many of them are
suspended in the air by traps which grip their crushed
limbs, and they are often left in traps for long periods
without water.

“There are times when the trap has broken the
leg and the muskrat (musquash) frees himself by
plunging about until the pressure of the jaws have
cut through the flesh.”

“ I have found a fox that was caught in a No. 2
Newhouse after three nights’ struggle as secure as
if newly seized.”

(anz‘alz'oasfroa/ “ Sfeel Traps,” a manual for trappers,
b} A. R. Harding.)

 

 




 

 

 

’94.

t .w ‘ufﬂnﬁ

 

Dacemaer, 1938

Notes and Comments

The Eleventh Annual Re-
port of the Pit Ponies’ Pro-
tection Society opens with
the following extract from a
short leading article pub-
lished in the Nortb Mail and
Newcastle C/Jmm'c/e of June
28th last :—

Excepting those who breed
pit ponies for gain everybody
outside the coal-mining
industry~and a great
many people in it—will
sympathise with the latest
effort to ban the employ-
ment of horses below ground.
Even if man can defend the enslavement of the

horse he can never completely excuse working him
in conditions wholly alien to nature’s intentions.
Such explanations as are offered are unacceptable
now that eﬂficient systems of mechanical haulage
are available.

This statement, as is pointed out in the Report,
coming from a newspaper circulating in one of our
largest coalﬁelds (where 15,900 ponies are still used
below ground) represents an informed public opinion
in relation to pit ponies and the mechanical alternatives
available to replace them. It represents a signiﬁcant
change in public opinion, and there can be no doubt
whatever that this change is in a large measure due
to the work of the P.P.P.S. in obtaining and dissem-
inating accurate and up—to-date information about
modern developments in relation to machine mining
and conveying. The Society’s vigorous advocacy of
the complete elimination of ponies from the mines,
its efforts to induce people to buy coal from non—pony
pits and its Petition Campaign have also been effective
factors in producing this change in public opinion.

\Y/e offer our warm congratulations to Mr. Jeffery
Williams, the Secretary of the Society, on the consider-
able measure of success which has attended his work,
and on the foresight, ability and keenness with which
it has been and is being pursued.

International League for the Protection
of Horses.

This League, of which Sir George‘Cockerill is the
Hon. Director, extended its rescue work to Ireland
in the autumn of 1937. The primary object of the
Irish Branch is to prevent Irish horses from being
exported abroad by securing legislation on the lines
of the Exportation of Horses Act, 1937, which safe—
guards British horses from this horrible fate. A
circular issued by the League assures us that the
foundations of such a Bill are being carefully prepared
and consolidated. In the past year the League had
bought 158 horses which were painlessly destroyed
in a Dublin abattoir. Most of these were quite unﬁt
for work and yet many of them were bought in sale-
yards when they were being actually sold for further
work with new and usually most unsympathetic
owners. Most of them were lame and several were
blind. When it is possible these horses are given a
period of peace and rest before being painlessly
destroyed.

39

' THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

New Parliamentary Session.

The R.S.P.C.A. announces that it is expecting to
have a very active Parliamentary Session in the New
Year and that arrangements have been made by the
Society for the introduction of the following Bills :—

The Performing Animals (Regulation) Act,
192 5 (Amendment) Bill, which Will be introduced
in the House of Lords by Lord Charnwood.

The Protection of Animals (No. 3) Bill. Sir
Robert Gower, M.P., Chairman of the Society, is
preparing to re—introduce this Bill, which deals
with cockfighting.

The Docking and Nicking of Horses (Prohibition)
Bill, which was passed through the House of Lords
last Session under the charge of Lord Merthyr.

The Importation of Plumage (Prohibition) Act,
1921 (Amendment) Bill, which will prohibit the
sales of feathers not allowed to be imported.

The Protection of Animals (No. 1) Bill, which
seeks to stop the hunting of captive animals.

In Captain MacCunn’s covering letter to this
announcement he points out that in view of the fact
that the international situation is going to make
progress of Animal Welfare legislation more difficult
than it has been in the past, it is more than ever vital
that the diﬂiculty and confusion caused. by overlapping
should be avoided.

There can be little doubt as to the truth of Captain
MacCunn’s statement in relation to the international
situation, and also as to the desirability of obviating
the confusion and diﬂiculty caused by overlapping.
As a means to achieving this end the institution of the
“ Clearing House ” scheme, and of quarterly meetings
between representatives of the various societies,
unanimously approved by the Conference held on
July Ist last, is greatly to be desired. The matter is
being pursued and it is to be hoped that before long
the scheme may be in operation.

United Action for Animals.

Speaking at a meeting of the local branch of Our
Dumb Friends’ Leagueat Cambridge on October 31st,
Mr. E. Keith Robinson, the Secretary of the League,
said, according to the report in the Cambridge Daily
Newy, that only when animal societies gave up the idea
of personal honours would anything worth while be
done for the animal movement. It did not seem to
him to matter one bit who gained the credit so long
as the animals were benefited. If the movement as a
whole were behind any Bill presented to Parliament
and said “ \Ve want this Bill to go through,” it would
go through.

The Chairman of the meeting was Mr. C. J. B.
Gaskoin, the hon. treasurer of the Cambridgeshire
R.S.P.C.A., who said that fruitful harmony was easy
unless there was such poaching or wasteful duplication
of efforts as would be involved by R.S.P.C.A. rivalry
with Our Dumb Friends’ League efforts for War
Horses in Belgium, the founding by one body of a
home or clinic where the other had one already at
work; or competition by one or other organisation
with the R.S.P.C.A. inspectorate in diﬂficult and delicate
work that needed the confidence and goodwill of
police and magistrates.

The meeting was held to further the extablishment
of a dogs’ home in Cambridge adjoining the present
cats’ home.

 

 

 

 

 




 

., ,.q'—:'~c;:.~n ,- g-Nita—gv' , , Li,-

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

December, 1936’

“ Necessary ? ” Cruelty

BY THE EDITOR.

OR anyone who
\w/ Fis at all sensitive
53 to the suffering
of animals, the sea—
son of the year we
are now approach—
ing is one in which,
perhaps, one be—
comes more acutely
conscious than at
any other season of
the year of the im—
measurable extent
of the sufferings and indignities we inﬂict on
those “ other ” members of that great animal
kingdom of which we are ourselves a part.
These other members—so different to our—
selves in many ways—whose primary needs
for a healthy, happy and abundant life are in
a great measure the needs we realise in our
own experience, are closely akin to us in
sensibility to pain, sensitiveness to suffering
and in emotional feeling and response, yet for
the most part their true well—being and happi—
ness is not a matter of real concern to the
majority of people—perhaps even to the
majority of those who are termed, somewhat
inappropriately it may be, “ animal—lovers.”

The excuse put forward for much of the
positive cruelty from which animals suﬂer—
and by cruelty I mean the inﬂiction of pain
or suffering upon another by which that
other is not intended to benefit—is that it is
“ necessary,” so we divide cruelty into
“ necessary cruelty ” and “ unnecessary
cruelty,” and excuse much of it on the ground
that it falls into the former category. To the
animal in terms of suffering it makes no
difference.

When we speak of “necessary cruelty”
to whom do we mean it is necessary—to the
health and well-being of the animal or to our
own comfort and convenience, health or
amusement? Take, for instance, the suffering
inﬂicted upon animals in connection with their
use for food—in breeding, transport, market—
ing and slaughter—even when these processes
are carried on under the least inhumane
conditions that can be conceived. These can
never be truly humane however much con—
ditions may be improved, any more than the
slave trade in human ﬂesh and blood could
ever be made humane.

 

40

Is the suffering thus inﬂicted on animals
“ necessary ”P or can it be obviated by follow—
ing a more natural diet}>

If it be true, as Dr. Benjamin Ward Richard—
son insisted many years ago, that “ the
oftener we go to the vegetable world for our
food the oftener we go to the ﬁrst and,
therefore, cheapest source of supply,” and
if it be true, as the Briz‘er/J Medial! journal
admitted a few years back under the pressure
of war—time conditions, that “ Grain has a far
greater energy value when converted into
ﬂour and eaten by man, than when eaten by
cattle and converted into meat by man ”—-
and thousands of people in this country have
proved this true in their own experience to say
nothing of whole races of mankind—then
surely it can no longer be contended in truth
that the cruelty and suffering associated with
the breeding and slaughter of animals for
food is a “ necessary ” cruelty—necessary for
human health and well—being. Nor does it
become necessary because our doctor may tell
us that ﬂesh food is necessary to our health,
though it may add to one’s difficulties.

If we are to be honest with ourselves, does
it not really amount to this—that it is “ neces—
sary ” only because we think that it is, because
we have made a fetish of ﬂesh—food and are
unwilling to consider as a serious proposition
the change from a diet to which we have been
so long accustomed (no matter what measure
of suffering it may involve to animals), which
might disturb the even tenor of our way and
involve us in some degree of domestic,
culinary and, perhaps, in certain cases,
physiological discomfort for a time.

Again there are those who contend that the
wearing of the pelts of animals is “ necessary ”
to their convenience and comfort and for
fashionable attire—“ we must keep up with
the Joneses.” So from their point of view
the suffering inﬂicted on millions of fur-
bearing animals annually in order to supply
their desires is a “ necessary ” evil. But is it
anything deeper than the urge of desire in
the individual that leads him (“ her ” would
be more appropriate here) to support and
condone the cruelties of the traffic? Is it a
requisite condition of healthy, happy and
lovely human life that fur-clothed animals.

(Continued on page 46).

 

‘3

wwl'

 




 

 

A _ -_ r

 

December, 1936’

From Foe

BY L. S.

of the Eastern States. For three years

he had saved to go big game hunting in
Alaska’s Coast Range, which is a spur of the
Rockies. He pictured himself bringing home
trophies—a bear skin, a moose’s head, the pelt
of a mountain goat, the antlers of a caribou.
How the other fellows would admire him
when he returned!

He had always specially wanted to bag a
mountain goat, chieﬂy because he had heard
how difﬁcult they were to get. They live
higher on'the mountains than any other four-
footed animals of the American continent,
roaming in the snow—filled gullies and climbing
the steep rocky peaks, keeping above the level
where there is danger from hunters. Almost
the only chance of shooting mountain goats
is when they come down on their way to the
rivers to drink.

Mountain goats are in outward appearance
something like mountain sheep and something
like antelope. They have the shaggy long
wool of sheep, the speed of movement of the
antelope and the surefootedness of goats.
They are big creatures, three to four feet from
their shoulder to the ground, and weighing
as much as eighteen stone. They are one of
the few animals whose coats are always white.
As they make their homes above snow—line,
their whiteness protects them, making them
very difﬁcult to sight from a distance. They
are very strong and compact, with a hump
between their shoulders. This and their size
caused the North American Indians, who
knew of their existence long before the white
man, to call them white buffalo.

The feet of the mountain goat are cloven
hoofed with rounded toes which are protected
by a hard horny covering to save them from
damage from sharp rocks when jumping. The
soles of their feet are like very spongy crepe-
rubber. This gives such strong suction that
they can climb safely up the steepest pinnacles
of rock or can jump twenty feet or more and
land on a narrow ledge without the slightest
fear of overbalancing.

Besides having feet so well suited for
mountaineering, these goats have partly devel—
oped hoofs half way up their legs. These they

use as brakes, squatting down on their haunches

g NDREW MAKIN was a teacher in one

41

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

to Friend

ELIOTT.

and glissading down steep, slippery places.
However steep the slide, they are able to brake:
up within a few yards. They can glissade in.
comfort even over rough rocks for they have:
a specially strong mat of fur and hide on the:
rump, and on this they sit when tobogganing.
Their whole coat is also weather—proof against:
wind—driven rain, or snow, against the stinging
needles of ice which travel on the gales, and.
against the cold, even when the temperature.
is sixty or more degrees below zero. The coat:
is of two layers, an outer one of coarse, greasy
hair which turns the wet, and an inner matted
layer several inches thick, composed of very
fine wool. This acts like the vacuum of a
thermos ﬂask. Besides this protection from
cold a mountain goat puts on a layer of fat
during the autumn ready for the winter, losing
it again in the spring.

Andrew Makin knew all there was to know
about the King of the Western Rockies, as
the mountain goat is often called, and though
he did not realise it, this knowledge had given
him a great admiration for this brave, cool—
headed animal.

He set out in a motor—launch from Ketchikan
with two other young fellows who had come
to Alaska to hunt, and with a guide. They
made a camp near the shore of a great f jordlike
inlet of the Pacific on a large mountainous
island where the guide knew there were
kodiak bear, brown bear, deer and mountain
goat.

 

A Mountaineer of Mountaineers.

BZ

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

It was on the second day that the guide
motioned to Andrew, who was ahead of the
other two, to lie down and to creep up on to
a high grassy ledge. From above the guide
had seen a herd of about ten goats. By the
time that Andrew had climbed to the ledge,
the goats had got wind of their pursuers, and
all but a large nanny with one kid, only a few
days old, had reached the edge of the grass,
and had made a twenty foot jump across a
ravine and were out of sight.

The nanny was urging her kid forward, but
though kids are generally capable of skipping
::about from the hour of their birth, this kid
:seemed weakly and wobbled over when
Lhurried.

According to the guide Andrew should
have shot at once, and he would have secured
both nanny and kid, but Andrew could not
bring himself to shoot, and was longing with
all his heart that the nanny and her kid would
get away before the two other hunters came
up. She was clearly very distressed. At last,
after pushing the kid along in vain, she lay
down, the kid climbed on to her back, and
off she went along the ledge, and with a ﬁne
.spring reached the other side of the ravine
.and safety with her kid still on her back.

The guide had never seen a nanny carry a
"baby in that way before, and he was touched
at her devotion, and acknowledged that
perhaps Andrew was right not to shoot. She
deserved to get away. But he was very upset
when Andrew refused to shoot any more
at all. .

“ Never again,” he said. “ Why, I’d almost
as soon shoot human beings as these innocent
creatures.”

But Andrew did not want to spoil sport
for the others. So he stayed round camp and
did the cooking, and made friends with a
family of brown bears and a score of little
chipmunks.

The goat distinctly shows the response of an animal
to its environment. Of course, an animal that can
live among canons, ice and crags must be sure—footed,
keen—eyed, and eternally wide awake. He must watch
his step and watch every step. Again and again he
travels along narrow ridges where dogs would slide
off or be blown overboard, he lives in an environment
where he is constantly in danger of stepping on nothing
or sliding off the icescape. Certain habits and charac-
teristics are exacted from the animal which succeeds
on the mountain tops. The goat’s rock and ice
climbing skill, his rare endurance, and his almost
eternal alertness all indicate that he has lived in this
environment for ages.

ENos MILLS.

December, 193 6’

A Living Curiosity

OHN BURROUGHS says that a fox is a
J pretty bit of natural history on legs.

The mountain goat is just the reverse.
I have never seen a big animal which, both in
outline and action, is so much the embodiment
of stiffness and clumsiness, just block—headed,
lumbering wood sections. The fox is alert,
keen, quick, agile, slender, graceful, and deft,
and looks all these parts. '

The goat is a triﬂe smaller than the mountain
sheep. The weight of a full—grown male is
about two-hundred and ﬁfty pounds. He has
a heavy body, high shoulders, and retiring

' hindquarters; he somewhat resembles a small

42

buffalo. His odd head is attached to a short
neck and is carried below the line of the
shoulders. He has a long face and an almost
grotesque beard, often many inches long.
The horns are nearly black, smooth, and
slender. They grow from the top of the head,
curve slightly outward and backward for eight
or ten inches, and end in a sharp point. The
horns of both sexes are similarly developed
and are used by both with equal skill. The
goat’s hair, tinged with yellow but almost
white, is of shaggy length.

In running he is not speedy. His actions
are those of an overfat, aged, and rheumatic
dog. He appears on the verge of a collapse.
Every jump is a great effort and lands far short
of the spot aimed at. Nearly all graceful
actions were omitted in his training. Nearly
all the actions of this woodeny fellow suggest
that a few of his joints are too loose and that
most of the others are too tight. He gets up
and lies down as though not accustomed, to
working his own levers and hinges.

Many times I have seen a goat trying in an
absurd, awkward manner, after lying down,
to remove bumps or stones from beneath him.
Holding out one or more legs at a stiff angle,
he would claw away with one of the others
at the undesired bump. Sometimes he would
dig off a, chunk of sod; other times a stone
or two would be dislodged and pushed out.
It seems to be a part of his ways and his habits
not to rise to do this, or even to seek a better
place. However, an acquaintance with his
home territory gives one a friendly feeling
for him. After seeing him composedly climb-
ing a pinnacle, apparently only accessible to
birds, one begins to appreciate a remarkable
co—ordination of head and foot work.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

December, 1938

Although the goat appears clumsy he is the
animal least likely to slip, to stumble, to miss
his footing or to fall. While the mountain
sheep perhaps excels him in zigzag drop and
skip—stop down precipitous places, nothing
that I have seen equals the wild goat when it
comes to going up slopes smooth and almost
vertical. His rock and ice work are one
hundred per cent. efficient. When it comes
to what you may call durability the goat is
in the front ranks.

* >x< >x<

Dressed in shaggy, baggy knickerbockers,
he is a living curiosity. I never see one stand-
ing still without thinking of his being made
up of odds and ends, of a caricature making
a ludicrous pretence of being alive and looking
solemn. And then I remember that this
animal is the mountaineer of mountaineers.

(“ Wait/Jed by Wild AﬂiMd/J‘.” By Enos
Mills.)

 

 

 

 

HEN: QMKeK

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Some Definitions.
The Rambler’s Federation Handbook for 19 38

contains some deﬁnitions from which are,

taken the half-dozen that follow:

Cowman—Where sportsmen go to kill some—
thing.

Cmiik.—-—Anyone who differs with a sports-
man.

Famz‘ie.—-—See “ Crank.”

Rigbir.—Something the other fellow hasn’t
got and must not have.

Sport—The maximum of killing with the
minimum of effort.

Truth—Any statement by a sportsman,
landowner, or keeper—drunk or sober.

43

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Luther and. the Lost Dog

ANNA L. CURTIS.

sternly. The coachman obediently did

as he was told, and the great reformer-
sprang out, and began to search among the:
rocks and bushes, whistling and calling-
coaxingly, all the while.

He was on the way to his home in Witten—
berg. His mind was weighed down with.
his great struggle for religious freedom,
and he had been deep in thought as the
carriage bumped along over the rough road.
But above the rattling and rumbling of the-
clumsy vehicle, he had heard the piteous.
howling of a dog somewhere in the lonely
night.

“Do you hear that? ” he called to the
driver.

The driver laughed, and answered, “ It
is just one of the village curs that has lost
itself in the dark. It will get home all right.”

But his passenger was not satisfied. He
listened again to the cry of distress, and then
ordered the driver to stop. “ One of God’s
creatures is in trouble. God wants us to
always help and do good to others, not only
to our brother men, but also to His beloved
animals.”

So the two men searched in the darkness,
and presently found a dog which had hurt
its paw, and could not put it to the ground
without pain. Luther picked the poor animal
up in his arms, carried it to the carriage,
and took it home with him. It seemed to
have no master, but eagerly accepted Luther,
and so long as it lived was a faithful member
of the Luther household.

It was not a handsome dog, and even
after its paw healed, was so awkward in its
demonstrations of affection, that Luther laugh—
ingly called it “ Tolpel,” which means elwmy.

Poor Tolpel may have been clumsy, with
his long body and his big tail, but his heart
was full of love for the family which had
adopted him, and he was deeply loved in
return. Once when the children were eating
their dinner, Tolpel lying on the ﬂoor beside
them, Luther said, “ If heaven and earth were
all changed and made over, the Lord would
still make new Tolpels; but they would
have a golden skin, and hair of pearls.”

(From Our Dumb Anima/r.)

“ STOP the carriage,” said Martin Luther,

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

December, 1938

Horrors of The Fur Trade

BY KATHARINE Cox.

T is doubtful if women who wear furs——

many of whom are extremely fond of

animals, and keep some much—loved four—
legged friend of their own—realise the hideous
cruelty connected with the trapping and
killing of the hapless wild creatures who supply
this much—admired article of feminine attire.

The late Grey Owl, whose delightful books
dealing with wild life are known to so many
of us, was at one time a trapper himself, but
eventually abandoned this mode of earning a
living, as he felt that he could no longer endure
to witness the sufferings which he was forced
to inﬂict upon the helpless animals he trapped.
The beaver, obviously a great favourite with
this talented writer, and which figures promi—
nently in many of his stories, is sometimes
killed in a particularly treacherous fashion.
A most intelligent creature, and of sociable
habits, this little animal builds a miniature
village of dome—shaped huts composed of
moss, branches, grass and mud in rivers or
brooks, and here he lives, stores his food, and
brings up his family. In the winter, however,
the trapper comes, and the outside walls of
the beaver’s home having now turned to ice
he breaks it up, and when the wretched victim
tries to escape up its burrow in the bank he
thrusts a long pole with a sharp hook at the
end of it up the burrow, draws the poor,
struggling creature out, and kills him. This
massacre of happy, innocent animal life does
not take long, and scores of beavers are often
slaughtered in a very few hours.

Other fur—bearing animals, such as fox,
Canadian lynx, possum, skunk, etc., are caught
by means of diabolical traps. Some of these
are placed on the ground, concealed by the
snow, others fastened to trees, and as in severe
weather the trapper often only makes his
rounds every ten days or so any animal caught
in one of these traps can be held prisoner by
one limb and linger in pain, hunger and thirst
until, after days of agony, it eventually dies
of cold, starvation or exhaustion. There is a
case on record of a lynx being found in a trap,
still alive, after three weeks of such torment,
and it is no unusual thing for a trapper to find
a bit of foot left in a trap from which the
animal has torn away, while the animal itself
lay dead from starvation beside it. A mother
fox, obviously frantic with anxiety about her

44

babies left at home, has been found dead
outside the cubs’ den, with part of a limb left
behind in the trap from which, in her despera—
tion, she has wrenched herself free. The
manner in which these unhappy animals
escape from these hideous traps is tragic in the
extreme, as in sacrificing the captured limb
in order to tear away they are forced to gnaw
through the sinews, which cannot be broken
by twisting.

Even such large animals as bears are caught
in traps, and one trapper, like Grey Owl,
shocked and disgusted at last with his method
of earning a living, has written of a bear
victim :——“ I found the half—grown animal
half dead with its foot gangrened . . . Its
teeth were broken with trying to sever the
steel jaws of the enormous trap . . . the bear’s
other leg was mutilated by its agonised and
frantic biting.”

The method by which seals are killed is so bar—
barous that it is difficult to believe that civilised
men, in all other respects presumably decent
and kindly, can ever bring themselves to embark
upon such a terrible trade as seal—catching.

Some of the bigger seals are shot—unfor—
tunately so unskilfully sometimes that they do
not die at once, but escape into the water,
where they linger in agony for a long time
before death ﬁnally releases them. Others are
clubbed with a seal bat—a horrible weapon
with a spike at the end of it—and here, again,
the victim is not always killed at once.

But it is the baby seal upon which the most
heartless cruelty is inflicted, for these—owing
to the fact that their “ baby ” pelt fetches a
higher price in the market than that of the
older animal—are slain when they are only
about fifteen days old. The mother seal, whose
love for her offspring appears to be as great
as that of a human mother, is aware of this,
and tries to conceal her baby from the view
of the sealers when she sees them approaching.
Covering it with snow with her ﬂipper she
places herself in front of it, while cries like
those of a human being break from her, and
tears run down her face. But intelligent though
she is she does not realise that her pitiful
efforts at concealment only serve to betray
the presence of the little victim to its slayer,
and the sealer, pouncing upon it, clubs it
before her eyes.

 

 

i




 

 

‘J‘y , ‘0 ‘

 

(
9

December, 1936’

Rocky

“ T/Je comer are but a feeble fol/é, yet 2‘ng make
their bower in ﬁre roe/er.” A
——PR0VERBs.

THE ﬁrst time I climbed Long’s Peak I
heard a strange, wild cry or call repeated
at intervals. “ Skee—ek,” “ Ke-ack,”
came from among the large rocks along the
trail a quarter of a mile below the'limits of
tree growth. It might be that of bird or beast.
Half squeak, half whistle, I had not heard its
like. Though calling near me, the maker kept
out of sight.

This strange voice, invisible and mocking
like an echo, called from time to time all the
way to the summit of the peak. And as I stood
on the highest point, alone as I supposed,
from somewhere came the cry of the hidden
caller. As I looked, there near me on a big
ﬂat rock sat a cony. He was about siX inches
long and in appearance much like a guinea—pig ;
but with regulation rabbit ears he might have
passed for a young rabbit. His big round ears
were trimmed short. .

Rarely do I name a wild animal—it does not
occur to me to do so. But as he was the first
cony I had seen, and seeing him on top of
Long’s Peak, I called him almost uncon—
sciously “ Rocky.”

Rocky raised his nose and head, braced
himself as though to jump, and delivered a
shrill “ Ke-ack.” He waited
a few seconds, then another
“ Shee-ek.” I moved a step
toward him and he started

off the top.

The following September
I came near Rocky again.
He was standing on top of a
little haystack—his haystack.
All alone he was working.
This was his food supply
for the coming winter ; conies
are grass and hay eaters. A
hay harvest enables the cony
to live on mountain tops.

Rocky’s nearly complete
stack was not knee—high,
and was only half a step
long. As I stood looking at
him and his tiny stack of
hay, he jumped off and

ran across the rocks as Photo by]

Roeek Hymx—Tbe Co”); of Scripture.

45

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

fast as his short legs could speed him. A
dozen or so steps away he disappeared behind
a boulder, as though leaving for other scenes.

But he came running back with something
in his mouth—more hay. This he dropped
against the side of the stack and ran off again
behind the boulder.

I looked behind the boulder. There was a
small hay ﬁeld, a ragged space covered with
grass and wild ﬂowers, surrounded with
boulders and with ice and old snow at one
corner. Acres of barren rocks were all around
and Long’s Peak rose a rocky crag high above.

Back from the stack came the cony and
leaped into the field, rapidly bit off a number
of grass blades and carrying these in his mouth
raced off for the stack. The third time he
cut off three tall, slender plant stalks and at
the top of one a white and blue ﬂower ﬂuttered.
With these stalks crosswise in his teeth, the
stalks extending a foot each side of his cheeks,
he galloped off to his stack.

Many kinds of plants were mixed in this
haystack. Grass blades, short, long, ﬁne, and
coarse; large leaves and small; stalks woody
and stalks juicy. Flowers still clung to many
of these stalks—yellow avens, alpine gentians,
blue polemonium, and purple primrose.

The American cony lives on top of the
world—on the crest of the continent. By him
lives also the weasel, the ptarmigan, and the
Bighorn wild sheep ; but no other fellow lives

 

LC . H. Stockley

 

 

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

higher in the sky than he; he occupies the
conning tower of the continent.

The home of Rocky was at approximately
13,000 feet. The cony is found over a belt
that extends from this altitude down to 9,500.
In many regions timberline splits the cony zone.
In this zone he ﬁnds ample dwelling places
under the surface between the rocks of slides
and moraines.

Conies appear to live in rock—walled, rock-
ﬂoored dens. I have not seen a cony den in
earth matter. With a few exceptions all dens
seen were among the boulders of moraines
or the jumbled rocks of slides. Both these
rock masses are comparatively free of earthy
matter. Dens are, for the most part, ready—
made. About all the cony has to do is to ﬁnd
the den and take possession.

In the remains of a caved moraine I saw
parts of a number of cony dens exposed. The
dens were a series of irregularly connected
spaces between the boulders and rock chunks
of the moraine. Each cony appears to have a
number of spaces for sleeping, hay—stacking,
and possibly for exercise. One cony had a
series of connected rooms, enough almost
for a cliff-dweller city. One of these rooms
was filled with hay, and in three others were
thin nests of hay.

Rocky placed his haystack between boulders,
beneath the edge of the big ﬂat rock on which
he sat for hours daily, except during haymaking
time. As soon as the stack was dry, he carried
the hay down into his underground house and
stacked it in one or more of the rock—walled
rooms. It appears that all cony stacks are
placed by the entrance of the den, and in as
sheltered a spot as possible. Rocky cut and
stacked his hay during September, then early
in October I saw him carrying it underground.

( To be continued)

“NECESSARY?” CRUELTY
(Continued from page 40)

should be trapped, tortured and robbed of
their skins which are surely intended for their
own warmth and well—being? There are cold—
resisting fur fabrics of great beauty to be had
which do not necessitate the exploitation
of animals either by trapping or in the new
form of fur—farming which is increasing so
greatly in our midst and in which the animals
are bred to captivity and death and denied the
exercise of their natural instincts.

December, I 938

Then there is, to take one other illustration
only, the intolerable practice of vivisection;
a practice which we are assured over and
over again is essential to human health
and the prevention of disease. Apart al—
together from discussing other methods of
prevention and cure than those provided
through the instrumentality of vivisection,
and there are many, we shall do well to enquire
whether the practice has been created and is
perpetuated with all its attendant pain and
suffering to the victims, not by any real
necessity of life but rather by reason of the
ill-health and disease (an'd‘our fear of these
disorders) caused in large measure by our un—
willingness to pursue “ temperance, clean—
liness, activity,” which Dr. Robert Hutchinson
has described as “ the three cardinal virtues of
the body as faith, hope and charity are of the
soul.” For it is, as he pointed out :

easier to repeat incessant formulae of prayer
than persistently to keep one’s self unspotted
from the world, and it is easier for fat old sinners
to paddle about bare—foot in the dew at a Kneipp
cure than to abandon at once and forever their
little darling sins of greed or indolence. One
hears a constant cry of “ Lo, here ” and “ Lo,
there,” and all the world rushes to sit hopefully
under blue glass or swathe itself in pure wool
in the ever renewed belief that some substitute
may be found for the fatiguing necessity of
obedience to the three rules.

If we were to pursue the distinction between
“ necessary ” and “ unnecessary cruelty ”
through all its ramiﬁcations, we should find
that the necessity is of our own making, and
has no true value; that it is created and main—
tained by prejudice and self-interest, the desire
to remain undisturbed in our thinking and in
our habits, the wish to be in the swim, and
not to come up against recognised authority
or some other form of self—preservation. How
far this attitude of thought and feeling is
maintained and strengthened by the inﬂuence
of vested interests preying upon our fears and
exploiting our self-interest by means of adver-
tisements, articles and leaﬂets it is impossible
to estimate.

It has been said of old time : “ No cruelty
is useful.” If this should prove to be true
after all, then may we not some day awaken
to the discovery that, in seeking to protect and
preserve our own comfort and life at the
expense of the suffering and lives of others,
we are in truth losing our life, for it has also
been said: “ He that loveth his life shall
lose it ”P When we come to this realisation
it will be Christmastide indeed.

46

 

 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

f

 

 




   
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  

 

 

 

Deeemher, I 93 8

To Market, To Market . . .

“ Blooa’ stiﬁ’a’ in skin; it British Christian foozl,
Ana’ Frame rohi~ Marrher of the eroa/éing Broorl ;
Spongj/ More/ls in rtrong Ragoartr are fonna’,
And in the Joape the slimy Snail ix a’roivn’a’.”

—16th Century Verre.

‘ ORSES are shod with iron shoes; this
Hhelps their unfortunate feet to withstand
the wear and tear of dragging man—
made loads along man—made roads. At one
time cattle used for transport, and cattle going
long distances to Gluttony Market were
similarly shod. In the nineteenth century
1,000 head of cattle and three—quarters of a
million sheep walked to Smithﬁeld every year—
to death. Christmas markets claimed a goodly
number.

The writer of a biographical note on a
drover of the 1870’s says: “Now stock is
fattened and sold as young as possible. Then
nobody killed lamb—only four—year—old
wethers; no baby beef, but three- or four—
year—old bullocks; and even the pigs would
not be sold till nearly two years old. This
meant that they were more able to stand the
arduous walk to London than the undeveloped
stock as sold to—day. . . . This journey (of
well over 200 miles) took about a fortnight,
something like twenty miles a day being
covered.”

Even the pigs had iron shoes. Grunting
and squealing, great numbers of pigs walked
from Dorset and Hampshire to London’s
Christmas markets, stopping on the way at
scheduled places overnight for feeds of fat—
tening foods.

Years ago geese and turkeys were regularly
driven from Norfolk and Lincolnshire to the
London markets. Their speed was something
like ﬁve miles in two hours. Defoe tells of
over 150,000 birds tramping to their unhappy
doom every year.

In order to coat their feet the unlucky hira’r
were driven through ranel and pitch alternatehi. In
1783 a drove of 9,000 geese went through
Chelmsford on their way from Suffolk to
London. In comparatively recent times geese
and turkeys, in droves of two or three thousand
at a time, walked 100 miles to London.

Steine tells us that they were urged on with
“‘ a stick and a red clout.”
Up to seventy years ago the “ goose walk ”

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

was a common sight in Northern England,
when enormous flocks of geese walked from
the country districts to the towns. From the
farms on the Ingleborough slopes the birds
were marched ﬁfty or sixty miles along the
roads to Yorkshire and Lancashire towns.
Birds that became exhausted were sold on the
way for a shilling or so, an expectant crowd
of villagers following the ﬂock for miles in
hopes of “ bargains.”

Nowadays the animals and birds mostly
arrive at the Christmas markets by train or
motor—lorry, and so are saved the miseries of
a journey on foot. So far so good. But the
miseries that are unavoidably associated with
the breeding of cattle and poultry for food
will only cease when people look with horror
on the idea of turning a market into a mortuary.
That will surely come in a more enlightened
future.

E. G. BARLOW.

Value of Vegetarianism.

Although it war by way; quite other than thore of the
vegetarian; that I haol eome to Mt plant food ahove animal
food, I now learnea’ to valae vegetarianism, and after mir—
ana’errtanaling it :0 long I would heartily admit that to—a’ay
every rtep forzvara’ in the investigation of nutrition hringr to
light new faetr in it; favonr.

DR. BIRCHER BENNER (M.D.).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

December, 1936’

From Onlooker’s Note BoOk

Tbe red Deeernber sansez‘ flares bebind z‘be naked
trees, and—basb!
A sonnd of wind and sweeping wings eernes rnsbing
tbreagb rbe liﬁle weed.
TERESA HOOLEY.

Thomas Carlyle, Born December 4th, 1795.
THOMAS CARLYLE (1795-1881) proved him—

self a benefactor to horses as one may see in'

the sage of Chelsea’s old house in Cheyne Row.
In the year 18 54 Carlyle invented a special
horseshoe to help horses on frozen roads
(Frost Cogs), and at the museum in Cheyne
Row an article describing this invention, with
the original horseshoe demonstrating his idea
which was afterwards universally adopted,
may be inspected.

Carlyle is reported to have remarked to a
niece : “ Ever since I was a boy I have never
thought of the practice of vivisecting animals
but with horror.”

The White Hare.

GILBERT WHITE, in Letter XXVIII (Natural
History of Selborne) from his native haunt,
Selborne, under date of December 8th, 1769,
alludes to the white hare that frequent the
Scottish mountains, and in a footnote to my
copy is the following explanation :—

The white hare (Lepns nariabi/is) is found in
summer on the summit of the Grampians, and
sometimes as far south as Cumberland. In siZe it
is intermediate between the hare and the rabbit,
differing essentially from both. It hides under
rocks and stones, but does not burrow. In winter
it descends to the valleys ; its fur becomes gradu-
ally lighter, and at length wholly white, except at
the nose and tops of the ears, which remain black.
In spring, on the approach of warm weather, it
sheds its fur altogether.

Mistletoe and the Thrush.

STANLEY LANGDALE, in Tbe Horne Owner
for December last, imparts many interesting
facts regarding mistletoe, and the following
proved to be news to me :—

For centuries mistletoe enjoyed a high reputation
in medicine, and even to-day the .plant is still
valued for its medicinal properties in Italy and
in some (parts of Asia. More credulous people
have credited mistletoe with unusual powers, the
peasants of rural Austria placing a sprig under
their pillows to ensure sound sleep, whilst in
Sweden a ring made from the wood of the plant

48

is regarded as a splendid antidote against illness
and all forms of disease.

That the berry had established itself as
perhaps Cupid’s greatest ally and that no
Christmas party is complete without its spray
comes as no news to readers of ANIMALS’
FRIEND. What is of interest is that :—

The mistletoe is surely one of the most inter-
esting plants in the whole of Nature’s vast king-
dom. It is entirely dependent on outside agencies
for a start in life, for the roots of the mistletoe
never touch the ground and the little seeds inside
the pearly grey berry "cannot germinate unless
they are secreted by some bird in the bark Of a
tree.

The Thrush (rardas rnnsiens) that Bottom
sings about in “ Midsummer-Night’s Dream,”
“ The throstle with his notes‘ so true ”—for
throstle is the country name for the thrush—is
also known as the mistle-thrush, meaning
mistletoe-thrush. Now this “ capering bird ”
is particularly partial to these berries and loves
to gorge upon them. As it feeds, many of the
seeds, which swim about in the sticky juice
in the interior, attach themselves to both bill
and feet, and then, when the meal is finished
and the bird ﬂies away to some other tree to
wipe its beak, a few seeds find suitable homes
in chinks of the bark where they eventually
germinate.

Decorations.

Here are some lines that are favourites of
mine taken from Cal/eez‘ed Poerns of Teresa
Hoe/e} (Jonathan Cape, 63.). Animal lovers
will ﬁnd much to please them in this volume.

God gane z‘be berries for rbe birds 2‘0 eaz‘.
I do not nndersz‘and
Wb} fol/é sben/d frern fbe bedges z‘a/ée
Tbe birds’ own feed to make #26 Cbareb loo/é grand
For His and jesns’ sake.

I ’d raz‘ber, if I were God,

Tbe bibs and baws were [efz‘jasz‘ wbere 2‘ng gro w,
Tben, rboagb M } bonse went bare,

XVI} bearz‘ would know
Tbe way z‘be birds would be singing eneiywbere
Tbaz‘ #99! were Mine and I bad given tbern feed—
A song equy, and lore, and graz‘iz‘ade.

ONLoo KER.

‘v—

 




 

l

VVW—V’ A M— '4'

l

 

 

Derember, 1936’

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Great Crested Grebe and Corncrake

BY CATHERINE M. CLARK.

 

 

Great C rerz‘ed Grebe 5/20 wing rile/e731 while breeding
plumage.

ECENTLY, in a second—hand bookshop,
R I had the good fortune to secure a copy
of Howard Saunders’ well—known
Mam/a] of Brz'z‘z'r/y Birdr: a second edition
revised and enlarged and containing 384
illustrations; it was brought out in 1899,
and this particular copy must have a history,
for on the ﬂyleaf is written in pencil “ Pre-
sented to me by Prince Ferdinand of Bulgaria
1899.” Unfortunately the signature is not
easy to decipher, but it is interesting to ﬁnd
that this English book on birds was read and
appreciated by the Prince and his friend,
for there are notes on some of the species in
the text written in pencil in a foreign language.
There is a statement in the introduction
that the book is “ intended to convey as much
information up to date as may be practicable

 

Nerf and egg: of Great Crerled Grebe.

49‘

2'72 one volume.” This it certainly does, and the
illustrations are particularly well done. It
can, of course, no longer be considered
up to date, but this is an excellent reason for
buying it; it is of great intereSt to turn the
pages, each one devoted to a single species,
and note the change in status of some of our
British birds, and the difference of opinion
on their habits in some cases, since forty years
ago.

For example, of the great crested grebe it is
noted, “its increase during the last decade
has been remarkable.” This increase, then,
has been noticeable since 1889 : no bird
perhaps has been helped to this end more
than the great crested grebe by measures of
protection, and few have responded better.
N 0 longer is it slaughtered during the breeding
season to provide trimmings for wearing
apparel made from its silvery-white breast
feathers; and no longer, we hope, are its.
eggs collected for display in a cabinet. In the
Meme/a! of BritiJ/J Birds we are told that
“ feathers are frequently swallowed and
brought up as castings, together with ﬁsh—
bones .” This may be true, but I have not
observed anything of the kind myself; nor
have I seen it mentioned in any modern
bird book that the great crested grebe
indulges in the owl—like habit of disgorging
undigested portions of its food. I have,
however, after the young grebes have hatched,
seen their nests strewn about with ﬁsh scales.

Of the landrail, Howard Saunders states that
in those days, it was “ widely distributed in
summer throughout the British Isles ”; now,
alas, it is verging on extinction as a breeding
species in most parts of the country. Even
twenty years ago it was not uncommon, but
no really satisfactory solution of the mystery
of its failure to continue to nest with us has
been found. It is seven or eight years since I
had visible proof of the corncrake’s existence
in England, in the form of a nest well hidden
in meadow—grass and herbage, and containing
eleven eggs. Since then I have heard it
occasionally, but never seen a sign of it until
April 50th, this year, 1938. I was driving along
a lane, little more than a cart track, when I saw
at a distance a bird which I thought was a
partridge. Stopping within three yards of it
I found it to be a corncrake in bright summer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

TH’E. ANIMALS’ FRIEND

.. ”K.

Nert of Larza’mz'l or Camera/ée contaiﬂz'ng eleven eggr.

plumage. It stood in a gateway for a full
minute, giving an excellent opportunity for
an unobstructed view of this bird which even
when common was very seldom seen. Refer-
ing to its nest Howard Saunders says it “ is
generally among meadow grass ; but
it is not infrequently in standing corn or clover,
and thus escapes notice until the brood is
safe.” More modern bird books do not
mention cornﬁelds as nesting areas, and in
H. F. Witherby’s Practical Handbook, it is
stated deﬁnitely that the landrail or corncrake
does not nest in cornﬁelds. Now if Howard
Saunders is correct in his observations, and the
corncrake really did nest in standing corn
prior to 1899, this change of habit on the part
of the bird may have some bearing on its
scarcity now. It is held by many that early
cutting of hay grass by machinery is responsible,
at any rate in part, though probably the
increased use of artiﬁcial manures on the
land may have some inﬂuence as well. If the
memory of a child is to be trusted, I certainly
recollect hearing the corncrake’s grating call
coming from the cornﬁelds I passed each day
throughout the summer on my way from
:school, but I never had the luck to ﬁnd a nest
,in either corn or hayﬁeld.

 

 

December, 1936’

Calling Padge
BY F.‘V. COLE.

“ H, look! Please look! There is an
owl, a large one, ﬂying over the
meadows by the river! . Can you call

it as the boys who come to our school from

your parish say that you can? Please do so
now if you can, while we wait.”

The three excited children commenced to
dance around my wife in such a madcap
fashion that any respectable owl would be
scared out of the wits which Tennyson said
an owl possesses, instead of responding to
her whispered lure by ﬂying in that direction.

“ If you would like me to lure that owl as
I did one the other day,” said my wife, “ and
I think this is the same bird—my old friend
Padge !——you must keep very quiet, as my
husband thought I did then; though I was
luring it all the while, by a whispering noise
like that the ﬁeld—voles make when they are
out in the ﬁelds or meadows gnawing grass
stems and doing a little gossiping at the same
time.” '

“ You know the oak tree opposite our gate.
The owl was passing on the ﬁeld—side of that
tree when, as I stood just _out of sight on the
opposite side of the bed, I began making a
whispering noise in imitation of those ﬁeld—
v-oles. The owl almost halted, and then it
ﬂew towards the open window, intent on
seizmg its prey.

“ But what a surprise for dear old Padge
when it drew up quickly near the bed and
discovered that its ‘little mouse ’ was at least
forty times as heavy as itself! Yet, as I
thought would happen, the owl is coming
back again on this side of the meadow. So
now you must ‘lie low,’ and make sure the
owl does not hear you breathe nor say ‘ Oh! ’
Hush! Not another whisper!” This last
admonition was whispered with bated breath
while they waited till, in a few minutes, there
was a cry of “ Oh! ” from all three children
as the owl swept over the fence, and, looking
as surprised as it was possible for a scared owl
to look, Padge went gliding up the lane and
then across the ﬁelds and meadows, towards
the woodlands and brecks, beyond the Upper
Yare and the Tud. For the beneﬁt of readers
who do not know our country, I would say
that these are the names of two small rivers
on the south of the River Wensum, in Norfolk,
before that stream reaches Norwich.

50-

 

 




 

 

December, 1938

There are many Nature-lovers who are
unaware of the fact that the various owls do
not hunt by sight but by the use of their
wonderful ears. These are so formed that
the opening from one points upwards, while
that of the other points towards the earth.
Thus the bird is especially gifted in the sense
of hearing; and this enables it to ﬂy in the
dark, as well as many other birds can do so
in the daylight.

Another advantage, in the form of a gift
by its Divine Creator, is the power of gliding
through the air on silent wings, owing to its
soft down—fringed plumage with which it fans
its way through the air. I have had one
approach within two yards of me and, unless
I had been warned in a whisper what to
expect, I could not have known of its coming.

Some years ago I was coming with a younger
brother down what were then known as the
White Hills at Bowthorpe, a small, scattered
village which, at the time, consisted of less
than ﬁfty inhabitants, when the pony I was
driving sprang to one side as a barn owl
darted out from a group of trees, opposite
the gateless drive to the Hall, about two and a
half miles from Norwich. Knowing what to
expect I stopped the pony and said to my
brother in a whisper : “ Do not be frightened !
But listen!” We did so for a few minutes
and then the ivy-covered tree seemed alive
with snoring folk. My young brother was
amused when, as we drove on, I explained
that the sound came from a nest of young
owls that were pleading for food their parent
had dropped before she had time to share it

among them as we came to the tree.

The Supreme Moment.

The coming of the wild geese and duck over the
North Sea is for me the supreme moment of the
Nature Year . . . sometimes thousands of feet up,
at others only a hundred or two: now a thin black
line, now a little black cloud athwart a red sunset
over the black whale—bone ridges of the Cheviots.
The little black brent come up in slow, easy ﬂight,
long wings decurved, with high metallic cries. White—
cheeked barnacle geese, their cousins, come in on the
same line of ﬂight. Year in and year out it is always
the same, for both duck and geese: from the south-
east to the north—west. They alight on the mud—banks,
with a holding back of dusky body against curving
black wings; to watch awhile in characteristically
upright attitude, and then to walk fast and easily down
to the creek for the blessed drink and bathe.

(From Al tbe Tum 0f the Tide, by Richard Perry.)

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Great Fox-Trot. By L. Lind-af—Hageby
(The A.K. Press, 15, St. James’s Place,
S.W.I), 33. 6d.

This is a book about animals which are
certainly not dumb. In satirical manner.
a meeting of foxes discuss their importance
in the world, and explain, convincingly,
how they have come to dominate the whole
human race.

They show how woman is dependent on
fox skins to hide her own limitations. They
discuss their importance as profitable in—
dustries, fur—selling shops, fur farming, fox
hunting, fox trapping. The foxes draw the
most scathing comparisons between foxcmz'zy
and humanity. And as showing how thor—
oughly foxes have dominated humanity,
one vixen has the last word: “ Even when
they want to dance they 7721th fall into a fox—
trot.”

Decidedly a book for all who wear furs,
all who sell furs, all who trap furs, all who
hunt foxes—and for all those who do none of
these. This fine propaganda book is attrac—
tively got up and profusely and delightfully
illustrated in colour and black and white
by Madge Graham.

E. G. B.

 

[mu-(y ERQLE OWL 2: {AFRICA

51‘

 

mm

 

 

 

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

December, 1938

Jules Michelet (1798-1874)

BY BASIL HARVEY-JAMES.

of animal—lover to vary this series, which is

inevitably a triﬂe “ top—heavy ” with
poets. The historian of the annals of humanity
has almost necessarily neglected the rest of the
Animal world. I advisedly said “almost,”
for the history of Man’s ancestors and of his
contemporaries is part of history, even of
strictly human history. However the usual
histories of battles and treaties, of reigns and
revolts, does not even portray real human
history, and if History neglects the common
people and ordinary men and women, how
much less should we expect it to photograph
beast, ﬁsh and fowl, save in a few rather
dubious anecdotes.

This being the case the historian is usually
remote from ordinary people and ordinary
animals in life and sympathy as well as in his
writings. An exception to this rule was
Macaulay, who twee brings bear—baiting into
his essays and histories, and not as some
think merely to illustrate his objections to
Puritanism and Utilitarianism respectively.

IT is always a pleasure to ﬁnd dinerent types

Another exception was J. R. Green, who

really “ reached the people.” More notable
than either of these was the compatriot of
Montaigne and Hugo, a man born in the same
year as Auguste Comte, the distinguished
liberal historian—Jules Michelet.

It has been my endeavour, wherever possible,
to give an excerpt from the works of my
subjects condemning as many as possible of
such malpractices as vivisection, blood—
sports, etc., rather than give abstract and
general quotations, whether trite and “ pretty—
pretty ” or really grand and fundamental.
'I have been very lucky in the case of Michelet,
and I have (as so often) Mr. Henry Salt to
thank, as I culled them from his book, written
forty-ﬁve years ago, but no more out—of—date
than Paine’s “ Rights of Man ” or the Epistle
of Saint James, entitled “ Animals’ Rights.”

In his great book La Bible de [’Humezm'te
iMichelet does not overlook the ‘ ethical
implications of ﬂesh—eating, which he deals
with in a passage worthy of Hugo in style and
'profundity 5——

The animals below us have also their
rights before God. Animal life, sombre
mystery! Immense world of thoughts and
of dumb sufferings! All nature protests

against the barbarity of man, who mis—
apprehends, who humiliates, who tortures
his inferior brethren. . . . Life—death!
The daily murder which feeding upon
animals implies—those hard and bitter
problems sternly placed themselves before
my mind. Miserable contradiction! Let us
hope that there may be another globe in
which the base, the cruel fatalities of this
may be spared to us.

On blood-sports Michelet is both uncom—
promising and possessive of an uncommon
insight. “ Woe to the ungrateful! ” he wrote :

By this phrase I mean the sporting crowd,
who, unmindful of the numerous beneﬁts
we owe to the animals, exterminate inno—
cent life. A terrible sentence weighs on the
tribes of sportsmen—they can create nothing.
They originate no art, no industry. . . .
It is a shocking and hideous thing to see a
child partial to sport ; to see women enjoying
and admiring murder, and encouraging her
child. That delicate and sensitive woman
would not give him a knife, but she
gives him a gun.

It is a good thing that one so widely read by
students, particularly in France, should have
been also an unquestioned opponent of
Vivisec’tion. He expressed a warning against
the empirical ruthlessness of Pseudo-Science in
a passage, which I think is however very unfair
to the “ child,” as many children are amazingly
“ constructive.”

The child disports himself, shatters, and
destroys; he ﬁnds his happiness in tmzz’oz'ng.
And science, in its childhood, does the
same. It cannot study unless it kills.
The sole use which it makes of a living
mind is, in the ﬁrst place, to dissect it.
None carry into scientiﬁc pursuits that
tender reverence for life which Nature
rewards by unveiling to us her mysteries.

I think that we may say that sixty odd years
later “ a few ” are now carrying such “ tender
reverence ” into their. scientiﬁc pursuits.
Let us hope and work that it may be more
and more.

New I am t/Je last man alive to deny that m'm'reetz'on
be; led to direoverz’ey. I ecu/d fill column: wit/7 an aeeoemt
of all tbe mare’r nestr z't bar direovered during my own
lifetime.

GEORGE BERNARD SHAW.

52'

 

 

 

 




Vvvw ' " W“

~_ -

 

 

 

 

 

throughout his terrible experience.

December, 1938

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Electrocution: How can we tell when it is Humane?

BY C. \W. HUME,
H072. Seerez‘my of UFAW (The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare).

old friend of animals sent me a news—
paper cutting. The cutting described
how a man, apparently killed by an electric
shock, afterwards declared that he had been
fully conscious, and merely immobilized,

A. BOUT twelve years ago a very honoured

time an electrocution chamber was in use in
London for cats and dogs, and the question
arose—“ Is it as humane as it looks? ” I got
my teeth into this situation, at the request of
my old friend, but there was considerable
opposition to any enquiry. After about
eighteen months of intermittent agitation we
succeeded in having a technical investigation
set on foot, and as a result the chamber then
in use was quietly scrapped.

Various improvements in design were sub—
sequently made, and at the present time a
good many humane societies are using electro—
cution, which is quick, clean and convenient,
and, in fact, very desirable—provided that it
be humane. There is one way, and only one,
of ﬁnding out whether a given electrocution
was humanely effected, and that is to know
the current, measured in amperes (not volts)
which passed through the animal so as to
traverse the heart. Fortunately certain re—
searches carried out in America during the
past ﬁve years have made available some quite
deﬁnite knowledge of what happens in the
electrocution chamber; under certain condi-
tions it will involve a rapid onset of uncon—
sciousness, followed by death; under certain
other conditions it will involve a short period
of extreme torture—and if we know the
amperage we can pretty well say which of
these things happened. Unfortunately, on
the other hand, the reports of the work have
been published in an engineering journal in
such a technical form that they are intelligible
only to trained electrical men, and the results
obtained have not passed into veterinary
literature. Unfortunately, too, it has turned
out that ordinary clinical observation cannot
distinguish the two conditions in which we
are interested; as a result of the tense con-
traction of the muscles, special apparatus and

53

At that ,

methods of observation had to be used in the
American investigations. In one instance the
experiments were open to grave criticism on
humanitarian grounds, but since they have
now been done we may as well make use of
the knowledge gained by their means.

The object of the present note is to make
some practical recommendations for consider—
ation by those who contemplate using an
electrocution chamber, and to outline the
reasons for these recommendations. The note
relates to alternating current derived from the
mains and passing from forequarters to hind—
quarters of a dog. The effects of current
passing through the head will not be discussed.
Some particulars and references will be found
on pages 107 to 112 of Vol. IV in the Animal
Year Book.

What I recommend is (I), that every electro—
cution chamber should be ﬁtted with an
ammeter directly in circuit with the animal
(an ammeter in the primary circuit of the
transformer would give entirely fallacious
readings). (2) That the ammeter should be
calibrated by an electrical engineer. (5) That
the operator using the chamber should be
required to record in a book the maximum
and minimum ammeter readings for each
animal. (4) That the record should be
inspected from time to‘ time, and if some of
the readings are found to be falling below the
required minimum the apparatus should be
inspected by a qualiﬁed technical man.

It should be noted that an apparatus which
works satisfactorily at a given time or in given
conditions may fail to do so at a later time or
in other conditions. For instance, high
resistance may develop in the leads or other
connections; the chamber may be connected
to mains of the wrong voltage; a part of the
apparatus such as a switch or an electrode
may become defective. The ammeter reading
is the only safe guide. I will now explain my
reasons for urging the above course.

The strength of the shock is measured by
the amperes passing through the body}, The
amperes are obtained by dividing the applied

 

 

 

 




 

Thus :

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND,

voltage by the resistance, measured in ohms.

volts
amperes 2
ohms

The voltage is roughly ﬁxed by the voltage of
the mains and the design of the transformer,
unless the internal ohmage of the transformer
is very high. If the internal ohmage of the
transformer is very high, the voltage applied
to the animal will be much less than that regis—
tered by the instrument on open circuit and
measured by a voltmeter when no animal is
in the box.

The main cause of variation in the amperes
passing through the animal is, however, the
variation of the ohmage in the circuit. This
ohmage consists principally of the contact
resistance at the points where the electrodes
are applied to the bOdy. If the animal’s coat
is dry and thick the ohmage may be so high
that the amperage is quite small. If the coat
is wetted with salt solution and a ﬁrm contact
is made the amperage will be much higher.
Thus the amperage may be quite low in spite
of the fact that a considerable voltage is
applied; for instance, workmen for a wager
sometimes take a voltage of 500 or 1,000
across their hands, after ﬁrst drying their hands
with methylated spirit.

Of the effects of a given amperage, four
may be noted here. (I) An amperage which
exceeds about I ma. can be felt by a human
being, and when the amperage exceeds about
15 or 20 ma. intense pain is experienced. (2)
At a fairly low amperage, the muscles of the
body become tetanized so that the animal is
unable to move or scream although it may be
fully conscious and in great pain. (5) At the
same time the lungs are immobilized, and if

chember, I 93 6’

the amperage is not raised to a higher value
the animal dies of asphyxiation. (4) If, on
the other hand, the amperage is made suffi-
ciently high from the start, death occurs as 'a
result of ventricular ﬁbrillation, which has
the effect of stopping the circulation. In a
case of intermittent heart failure observed by
Poulton in a human being, it was found that
unconsciousness supervened within three or
at most ﬁve seconds after the pulse had
stopped. We may probably assume, therefore
(though Prof. Ferris holds the opposite View),
that if the amperage is sufficient to stop the
circulation instantly, electrocution is humane.
If, on the other hand, a lower amperage is
used, death occurs as a result of asphyxiation
after a short period of intense suffering. It is
impossible to tell, without elaborate apparatus,
whether death was due to asphyxiation or to
failure of the circulation, since in both cases
the muscles are in a state of tension which
vitiates the results of direct observation.

A strong current will produce failure of the
circulation quickly, while a weak current will
produce it after the lapse of a certain interval.
The relation between the strength of current
and the time required to produce failure of
the circulation is approximately hyperbolic
for any given animal.

Ferris and others found, with ordinary 60—
cycle alternating current, that in the case of a
number of dogs, the largest of which weighed
57 lbs., ﬁbrillation was set up iwithin three
seconds if the current exceeded 220 ma.
The amperage required increases with the
body weight, but we might feel fairly safe in
saying that a small or medium—sized dog had
been humanely electrocuted if the current
passing exceeded 250 ma., 216., a quarter of an
ampere. For large dogs we might put the
ﬁgure at half an ampere. -

 

 

 

Photo by]
54

 

 

 

[P. Philhps

 

 




 

 

Deceméer, I 936’

World Day for Animals-—

Greece

N response to a nation—wide appeal of Her

Royal Highness Princess Catherine, younger

sister of His Majesty King George II of
Greece, for kindness to animals, thousands of
school children all over the country pledged
support to the Society for the Protection; of
Animals, of which Her Royal Highness is the
President. On the occasion of the \X’orld Day
for Animals the Radio Station at Athens
broadcast the meSsage of Princess Catherine,-
" in which she stated: “ In this humane work
I expect particularly the enthusiastic co—
operation of the young peoplewho are readily
inspired with high and noble ideas.” Since
then, written resolutions to be kind to animals
are being sent daily to Princess Catherine,
signed by thousands of boys and girls, all
. joining in a crusade against those who illtreat
animals. Here is a sample of the resolutions
received from the village of Papadiana of
Crete signed by the school children on the
4th of October :— -

WE RESOLVE—

That all students of our school will take care
and protect the animals of the village.

That whenever they see a peasant being cruel
to an animal the case will be reported.

That the whole school community promises
never to touch the nests of birds which are so
useful to agriculture.

That they will not allow any boy or girl to use
catapults and save birds from destruction.

' Fol/0222 szgnamrex.

In the same spirit are all the resolutions
receivedby Princess Catherine, who remarked
to the writer: “ I am much gratiﬁed to see
how many thousands of young people resolve
to be kind to animals. It proves that a new
' day is breaking in Greece for a better under—
standing of animals. When people learn to
administer justice to helpless beings, there is
then hope for world peace.”

More than ever before the observance of
the World Day for Animals became in Greece
a national celebration. For the last six years,
the Fourth of October, which is dedicated in
Greece“ to zoophile Saint Hierotheos, ﬁrst
Bishop of Athens, has been made the occasion
of releasing the propaganda of the Athens
S.P.C.A. throughout every province and
county in Greece. The Hon. Secretary of the
‘Athens S.P.A., interviewed concerning hu—

55

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

mane education in Greece, the following state—

ment was made to the press representatives :—

The official support of the Ministry of Education

and the willing co-operation of teachers all over

the country marked this year an important step

in humane education. We have the information

that many schools organised KINDNEss CLUBs at

the suggestion of the Ministry. And judging from

the participation of the schools in the priZe contest

essay on the subject Of kindness to animals, we

may safely conclude that the movement of animals’

protection will in a few years have the active

support of the Greek public. Animal welfare

depends on humane education in schools. On

the other hand the celebration of the World Day

for Animals in Greece has already done much in

arousing public opinion in favour of the suffering
animal. . j ,

Of the cases of kindness to animals in
schools, the following story was published
in the Athenian papers to the- credit of several
Athens College students. Recently, .when a
group of Athens College students were ex—
cursioning to Old Corinth, they found on
their way, sailing through the Corinth Canal,
a dog struggling to free himself from an
inaccessible cavity on one side of the canal
wall. Persuading the captain of the boat to
stop, the young collegiates saved the dog.

Princess Catherine, active in following the
work of humane education in schools, visited
the village schools at Menidi, where H.R.H._
awarded to a group of boys the badge of the
Society as a token of appreciation for their
kindness to animals. Athens College students
also had the honour to show Princess Catherine,
when she visited the school, the “ Bird—

. Houses ” the constructed.
Y

Following the dictum of Saint Hierotheos,
“ Into the soul that does not love animals
wisdom will not enter,” the Ministry of
Education issued an order to all the schools
to incorporate in the various lessons the
teaching of humane principles. Likewise, the
Church of Greece sent a circular to all the
priests of the country, signed by the late
Archbishop of Athens and of All Greece.
As Head of the Greek Orthodox Church and
Chairman of the Honorary Committee of the
World Day for Animals in Greece, His
Holiness made the following declaration:
“It is the duty of man to be kind to animals.
Acts of cruelty to animals degrade man.
From the Bible we are taught that “ A
righteous man regardeth the life of his beast ”
(Proverbs XII, Io), and that God careth for
oxen (see I Corinthians IX, 9). Our
Church honours the memory of many Saints
as protectors of animals.”

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The National Council

December, I 938

for Animals’ Welfare

Hon. Organirz'ng Seerez‘my: J. L. CATHER.

Poster and Drawing Competitions: List
of Prize Winners.

' ELOW is a list of the Prize Winners in
Bthis Competition held by the National

Council for Animals’ Welfare in schools
throughout England and \‘Vales during the
celebration of Animals’ Welfare Week, 19 38.
The winning posters, along with many other
entries, will be exhibited at the Animals’ Fair,
in the Central Hall, Westminster, on December
5rd. They are of considerable interest and
merit, and the ideas of animal welfare enter—
tained by children between the ages of 7 and
14 as portrayed in these efforts are worth
consideration.

Unfortunately, nearly fifty posters sent in
were not eligible for the competition because
the rules were not complied with. In some
cases the ages were not given, and in others
the names of the schools were omitted and
no indication given of the town or school
from which they came.

Class—Ages up to 8 years.

Ist Prize : Gerald Henley, age 8 ; Oakﬁeld
Boys’ School, Ryde, I.O.W. ’

2nd Prize: Margaret Watkinson, age 7;
South View Infants’ School, Yeadon, near
Leeds.

3rd Prize: Reggie Bruckman, age 7; The
Woodlands School, llford, Essex.

Class—Ages from 8 to II years.

Ist Prize: Peter Baylis, age 10; Central
Junior School, Felixstowe.

2nd Prize: Ernest Mead, age 11 ; Slapton
C.E. School, Leighton Buzzard.

5rd Prize: Ronald Chapman, age 11 ; Droop
Street J..M School, Paddington, London.

Consolation Prizes: P. King, age 10; J.
Valvona, age 10; J. Havey, age 10; St.
Mary’s School, Ryde, I.O.W.

Class—Ages from II to I4 years.
Ist'Prize: P. Ellis, age 12; St. George’s
School, Ryde, I.O.W.
2nd Prize: Pauline Bagley, age 13; New
Malden East Central Girls’ School, Surrey.
3rd Prize : David Moorman, age 15 ; Oak—
ﬁeld Boys’ School, Ryde, I.O.W.
Consolation Prizes : Percy Elborough, age
12; Okewood District C.E. School. D.

St. George’s School, Ryde,
I.O.W. Joan Smiles, age 14; New Malden
East Central Girls’ School, Surrey. Phyllis
Dall, age 15; West Byﬂeet Central School,
Surrey.

\We are happy to report an increase this year
in the numbenof entries. Last year 110
posters and drawings were entered from 37
schools : this year 55 schools have taken part
and have sent in 178 entries.

Penney, age 14 ;

Do not Delay!

The 19 39 ANIMALS’ FRIEND Calendar is
selling very quickly and those who wish to
secure copies should not delay but send in
their orders at once.

The Calendar contains a quotation bearing
on Animals or Animal \Welfare for each day
of the year, is illustrated on each of its ﬁfty—
two pages with drawings or photographs of
animals, wild and domestic, and has a special
cover design by NEAVE PARKER.

Price 1s. 3d., including postage for single
copy. Send your order to ANIMALS’ FRIEND
Calendar, Dept. N.C.A.W., I, Featherstone
Buildings, High Holborn, London, W.C.1.

 

Photo by]

[U.S. Forest Service

 

 

 

56‘

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

December, I 93 6’

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Library Table

At the Turn of the Tide. By Richard Perry.
With reproductions of paintings by Peter
Scott, John Duncan and Richard Harrison,
and of photographs by W. W. Nichols,
H. N. Southern, etc. Lindsay Drummond
Limited. 123. 6d. net.

This is a book all about the lives of sea and
estuarine birds, and it derives its apt and
attractive title from the fact that the lives of
these birds are ordered by the tides and the
moon. The lure of the sea and the saltings,
of the ﬂats and the marshes, is in the book,
and Mr. Perry has tried, as he tells us in his
introduction :—

. . . to capture the spirit of the birds that dwell

.in almost the last wild places of the English

Country: fresh-marsh and salting, mud-ﬂat, sand—
bank, and sea—girt island—from the green fresh—
marshes and shingle beaches of East Anglia two
hundred miles north—west to the saltings of Solway,
and from thence across the Cheviots to the tidal
slakes and islands off grey Northumbria, and out

to that twelve-mile limit at sea beyond which the
onshore ﬁshermen venture not.

The author has succeeded in his attempt,
and this is due in large measure to the fact
that he is no armchair observer content to
theorise on the observations of others but a
ﬁrst—hand student and ﬁeld naturalist who for
many years, day in and day out, has lived with
the birds of which he writes, and who, being
in love with his pursuit of truth and beauty,
has followed it up careless of personal comfort
and well-being, so that he can write :—

Lying out there alone, in the middle of thousands
of acres of saltings and mud—ﬂat listening to the
far metallic gag—gag 0f pinkfeet and the deeper
clanging numb-owe}; of scattered grey lags, I sense,
momentarily, the supreme thrill of wild geese,
that makes me ever ready to endure hours of
hellish wind, numbed by the half—frozen water of

some slimy creek, for a mere sight of them a
couple of hundreds yard distant.

It is not surprising, then, that in T/ae Tum
10f #96 Tide the author makes us feel something
of the wonder to which he thrilled, and
appreciate in some measure the changing
colour-—“ changing with sun and shade and
not as registered in textbooks ”—and living
beauty of which he writes. The reader will
follow the author’s unconventional theories,
arising as they do from his personal observa—
tions in the ﬁeld, and arguments arising out
of them, in relation, for instance, to “ Migra—
tion,” “ Simultaneous Flight Movement ”—

57

“ this perfect synchronism of mass-move—
ment ”———and “ The Signiﬁcance of Colour ”—-
“ The more vividly I depict the colour and
beauty of some incident of Nature, the more
clearly stand out its scientiﬁcally significant
details ”—with an alert mind and deep feeling.

Mr. Perry writes of wild geese, .of wading
birds, of terns and gulls, petrels and shear—
waters, divers, herons, cormorants and others?
with simplicity and beauty of language, and
writes of them not merely as objects for
technical appreciation but as one, again to
quote his own words :—

Watching birds, looking for the true signiﬁcance
of their actions, I ﬁnd their beauty and their
environment as arresting as the strangeness of their
behaviour, which is often passed lightly over as
intelligent, but is, rather, according to my observa—
tion, instinctive: the logical outcome of millen—
niums of natural and sexual selection. I do not
ﬁnd it possible to treat birds merely as objects for
technical appreciation. They are too volatile,
too quick with life; their cries, their ﬂight, their
plumage, their courtship, too beautiful. Their
study—and for that matter the study Of all wild
life—~is unexpectedly satisfying. To know the
cries of birds and the ways of beasts, and to be
conversant with the thousand and one subtleties
with which Nature safeguards the species, is to
open up a new world of unsuspected beauty and
tranquility too rare in the twentieth century.

We warmly commend this book with its
delicate colour plates and arresting mono—
chrome illustrations to all our readers who are
interested in the life, colour and movement of
wild birds. It is beautifully printed and pro—
duced and is a book greatly to be desired.

Lad, the Story of a Border Collie. By Lady
Kitty Ritson. With 15 illustrations by
Cecil G. Trew. A. and C. Black. 53. net.

Lad is a story of outstanding merit packed
with interest and incident from start to ﬁnish.
It is unusually well written and the character—
isation of its canine and human personalities
is remarkable for insight and charm; there is
a touch of genius about it—and there is
humour. It is a book of true values.

The interest of the story opens up in the
ﬁrst sentence : “ Meg had a litter of puppies,”
and with our introduction to one of these
little black and white creatures “ with ears
which were pricked one day but ﬂat the next ” ;
one 'who, smaller than the others, was ﬁrst
seen by Mairi lying apart from them. “ The
auld lass kens he’s nae use,” said Donald the

 

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

shepherd, “ for she’s always pushing him oot.
I doubt but he’ll live.” “Father,” asked
Mairi, looking up at him with eyes which
were as grey as the lochs in autumn, “ may I
have the wee pup for my own?” Under the
care of Mairi, with the help of dear, wise old
Morag,‘ her nurse, Lad, grew up into a lovely
puppy, much more clever than his brothers,
and; one of the most interesting chapters of
the story is the last in which we watch Lad
working with distinction under the direction
of Mairi in a sheep trial.

The story of Lad includes a chapter on his
Education, which is handled in a masterly way ;
another recounts his ﬁrst encounter with Angus
the Bull, the sequel to which is the second
encounter narrated in Chapter V, “ Lad Pays
Back Angus.” In Chapter VI the story of
Lad’s illness is told, and here the reader will
have some poignant moments and emotions,
for long before this stage has been reached
both Lad and Mairi have established them—
selves as personalities whose joys and sorrows
and well—being are matters of very real con—
cern. The way in which Lad is treated for
distemper and pneumonia and the tender and
careful nursing he receives is by-no means the
leastinteresting part of the tale, and much can
be gleaned from it which may be invaluable
to any dog owner who finds himself caught
up in a similar crisis. '

In addition to Lad and Mairi, we make the
acquaintance of Bina, an Alsatian, and his
owner, Derek Fanshawe, who was also Mairi’s
godfather; Mistress Maclauchlan, “ ower like
the Witch of Endor ” for the liking of Donald,
but “ knowledgable in str—r-range ways,” kind
to bairns and to the birds who perch on her
shoulders. Then there is Gino the Gypsy,
great grandson of Mistress Maclauchlan, with
his fine, tapering, strong hands, “ as beautiful
as only very brown hands can be,” and his
big understanding of the ways of nature and
wild life. Among other well—drawn characters
mention should be made of Mr. McAlister,
Mairi’s father; Dr. Wedderburn, who brought
Mairi into the world; Tarrybuckle and his
Arab ponies, and Jamie, a Job’s comforter,
supposed to be a little “ saft ” but possessed
of “ a great knowledge of and sympathy with
all beasts and birds.”

Lad is a book we recommend without
qualiﬁcation or reserve. It will, perhaps, make
a special appeal to children and young people
between the ages of 12 and 18, but will be read

58

Decembaj 193 6’ ‘

by many grown—ups with equal pleasure and-
interest.

EXTRACTS FROM “ LAD.”

Mairi to Donald :—

“ I’m going now, while it’s light,” Mairi said, and,
her voice was cold with determination. “ I’m not a.
baby, I’m nearly‘ﬁfteen years old and I know quite well
where she lives. She might know of something
that would save Lad’s life, and if father told me a.
hundred times that I wasn’t to go, I’d go and he could
punish me afterwards. I’ll tell him that you tried to-
stop me, and I’ll never say that you mentioned Mistress
Maclauchlan.”

Mr. McAlister to Mairi :—

“ Remember .
people if you get into trouble. Sometimes, of course,
you can’t help it, but generally it’s a person’s own
silly fault.”

Mr. McAlister to Derek Fanshawe :—
“ Do you think I’m hard on her?” he asked. “ I
don’t want to be but I want her to be able to face the

world, and the world needs a strong character if’

you’re going to do any good.”

Derek Fanshawe to Mairi :—

“ . it was forbidden to shoot them or to trap the
beaver either, I’m glad to say. Anyhow, I’ve given up
shooting except for food. It’s easy enough to send
some animal crashing to the ground, but you can’t
put back that spark of life you’ve taken away.”

* * >l<

“ Sorry for the rabbits?” Derek said reﬂectively.
“ I never looked at it in that light. Rabbits are such,
well, rabbits. However, perhaps I should feel different

if I were a rabbit. What a conversation! It sounds.

like Alice in Wonderland.”
Morag to Mairi :——

“ I think you should go out with him and let Lad.

learn his work. Remember, Mairi, a man or woman
that does nothing is only half a person and it’s the same
with a dog. Go you out to—day and see what Donald

thinks. . . ”
* ::< *

“ My own mother saw the water-horse . . . and.

she walking beside Loch Fyne one evening. Why

should there not be beasts of which we know nothing—-

aye and other things too,” she added. “ Myself,
I think it makes life more interesting.”

Mistress MacLauchlan to Mairi :—
“ They think I am a witch,” she said one day,
“ because I have skill in healing, and they do not

realise that it is because the herbs and plants are stronger-

and better than the minerals men use in these days.
They were put there that they might be easily found

when they were needed. This is true, for animals.

and human beings alike, but above all for animals.
Indeed, sometimes the medicines given by man to the
beasts kill them, when without anything at all they would
have lived. Remember this when I am no longer
here to warn you, and if the herbs cannot cure an animal,
his time has come, as it must come to us all, and let

him depart quietly and happily. Remember, child of‘

my heart, that animals do not suffer when death comes,

as we do, because they do not struggle and fight as.
foolish humans do to hold on to something which is-

no longer precious.”

. . you’re only a nuisance to other




 

December, 1938

‘Gino to Mairi :—

“ Be careful, cousin, how you make pets of the
wild animals, for it often means heartbreak for you
and death for them. Keep to your dogs and your
horses.”

“ I have seen much hawking, and the tame falcon
is a poor thing compared with her wild sister. She
loses something of that wonderful grace and she loses
much of her health. Have you ever seen a white
falcon, the ger—falcon, which kings used to give
each other as a supreme gift? They do nOt come here
often, and when they do come, man kills them. They
are the most beautiful birds, I think, in the world,
but I would rather see them ﬂying free than trained
and spoiled.”

Donald to Mairi :—

“ It’s a wonderful thocht,” he said to Mairi one day,
as they were resting in the lee of a stone wall with the
dogs at their feet, “ how oor wee collies are scattered
all over the wor-r—ld. They’re used in yon Ameriky
and Canada and in the Falkland Islands and in Australia,
although oot there they hae some guid dogs ca’ed
‘ Kelpies,’ but I misdoot that they’re as wise as auld
Meg here—eh, ye daft auld fule? ” He stirred the
dog affectionately with his foot and she laid back her
ears and “laughed ” with her eyes in the attractive
way which some dogs have.

Elephants in Africa. By Frank Melland.
Illustrated by Paul Tresilian. Country
Life, Limited. 108. 6d. net.

Mr. Melland’s book is based on. personal
observations of the elephant, for whom he
has a real feeling, carried on over a long period
of years. He has therefore much to tell of
the communal and family life of elephants, of
their natural history, their intelligence and
instincts, their diversity of temperament, which
is of interest and will dispel many popular
misconceptions. But while Mr. Melland
undoubtedly has this feeling of respect and
regard for the elephant and deplores the
persecution to which it has been subject in the
past and which led to its practical extermina—
tion in South Africa at one time, some of his
actions and pursuits as recorded in this book
appear to the reviewer to be reconcilable with
thislfeeling only on the basis of the dictum——
surely specially applicable to the sportsman—
“ each man kills the thing he loves.” He does
not feel this love of the elephant, ~of which he
writes (to judge by the tone in which he refers
to some of his own elephant shooting exploits,
and those of other hunters, as related, for
instance, in Chapter III in describing the
manner in which elephants help a sorely
wounded comrade to get away), inconsistent
with these exploits, even although they were
associated, so far as we can gather, with
elephant shooting as a sport. Indeed, the

59

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

Pho '0 by]

[C. H. Stockley
Bull Elepliaﬂt—Mouut Keltyu.

authorexplains that his relations with elephants
and other big game “ were primarily for sport,
to get good trophies, and to ensure a supply
of meat for the pot, my own and my followers.”
This suggests that his emphasis on the “ en-
dearing ” qualities of the elephant must not
be taken too literally. '

When one can get away from the “ shooting ”
aspect of this book (and although the author
tells us that “ This is essentially not a book
on shooting,” we do not find it easy to escape)
there is a good deal to interest and to enlarge
one’s knowledge. In addition to the chapter
on the rescue of wounded elephants by‘ their
comrades, Mr. Melland writes of Charges and
Stampedes, Family Life (including Breeding
and Childhood and After), Elephant Control,
Elephant Intelligence, Normal and Abnormal
Diet, and Sickness and Death. Another
section of the book deals with experiments
in the domestication of the African elephant,
and yet another on African natives and
elephants.

The twelve full—page drawings by Stuart
Tresilian are admirably done, and the author
describes them as truthful representations of
the actions or events described.

“ T/Je more I studied e/epbautr, t/Je more Mary I became of
genera/tying about t/yeuz. Oue tau lay down no deﬁnite rule
ax to bow they would uet in any given ez'reumrtauee.”

 

 




 

 

 

Photo by]

U. H. Stone
Waiting for W’baz‘?

Sam : The Story of a Cat. By John Crawford.
With 45 photogravure plates by Edward
Quigley. J. M. Dent and Sons, Ltd.

Some 45 page illustrations of Sam, an
ordinary Tabby cat, in every conceivable
attitude, pose and activity, go to make up this
attractive gift book—attractive, that is to say, to
those grown—ups and children who really like
cats and know something of their ways and
moods. In the descriptive letterpress, which
is on the page opposite to its appropriate illus—
tration, Sam’s early experiments in life with
things animate and inanimate are described in
an easy and natural manner. Some of our
readers might ﬁnd it an interesting exercise
to take these living pictures of Sam—they are
really wonderful studies—and write from them
the story of Sam in their own style and then
compare what they have written with the
author’s text. Each picture tells its own
story, but is it the same story to you as to
the author?

We think that the publishers speak no more
than the truth when they say that people who
like cats will turn the pages of this book again
and again.

60

”>qu ‘ rt " ‘- 41L —I' “W. _:?"~7r"-r'r-i'4"’"

December, 1936

Animals of the Bible. A Picture Book by
Dorothy P. Lathrop. Oxford University
Press. 63.

Awarded the first Caldecott Medal in the
U.S.A. for “ the most distinguished picture
book for children in 1937,” Animalx of tbe
Bible has now been published in this country
by the Oxford University Press.

It is certainly a book of rare distinction and
delicacy. Miss Lathrop has interpreted the
Bible animals with her great artistic gifts, and,
as Helen Dean Fish (who has selected the
appropriate accompanying text from the
authorised version of the Bible) points out in

her foreword, “ with a love and understanding '

of animals that only one who has drawn many
animals from life can possess.” These are
not passive and lifeless animals—the Horse,
for instance, literally “ paweth in the valley
and rejoiceth in his strength.” There are
beautiful double-page drawings of the Crea—
tion, of the animals entering the Ark “ two by
two,” and of Isaiah’s Peaceable Kingdom, and
page drawings of Old and New Testament
stories, including “ The Scapegoat,” “ Ba—
laam’s Ass,” “ Leviathan,” “ The Thirsting
Hart,” “ Animals Around the Christmas
Manger,” “ The Foxes Have Holes,” “ The
Family Dogs,” “As a Hen Gathereth Her
Chickens,” and many another.

A singularly appropriate paragraph con-
cludes the foreword by Helen Fish :—

Interest in animals is almost universal in children.
It is only one approach to the Great Book, but
it is a certain one, for as Browning reminds us :——

God made all the creatures and gave them our
love and our fear

To give sign we and they are His children, one
family here.

Big and Little.
gs. 6d. net.

This is a book of twenty-eight full-page
photographic illustrations of animals with
young—the size of the page being about
7}, by 10 inches. They are loVely pictures,
beautifully reproduced, and the artist has
managed to catch and imprint on the sensitive
photographic plate in many of her pictures
those expressions of maternal pride and
solicitude that only those who have a true
feeling for life, whether it be human or animal,
can know and understand. We are not sur—
prised, after studying these, to learn that the
artist spends hours of watching to make one

By Ylla. Country Life.

 




 

 

 

Decemﬁer, 1936’

picture and uses many ﬁlms. The picture of
the adult orang-utan with the arms of its
little one around it, and the appeal in the eyes
of both mother and child, is extraordinarily
eloquent, and even the Wart—hog, not dis-
tinguished for its grace and beauty in human
eyes, in sleepy and restful pose yet undoubtedly
aware of its unconscious young nearby, makes
an appeal.

This book will delight the child who is old
enough to appreciate photographic illustra—
tions of animals in black and white. Anything
from half a dozen lines of letterpress to a page
accompany each picture. Among the animals
portrayed are Baboons, Zebras, Sea Lions,
Ass an‘d Foal, Tapirs, Cat and Kitten, The
Dog, Elephants, Mare and Foal, Black Swans,
Kangaroo, Indian Cow and Calf, and Rabbits.

Rajah the Elephant. By M. E. Buckingham.
Illustrated by Maurice Tulloch. Country
Life, Limited. 73. 6d. net.

Here is a book that will delight many
children and young people between the ages
of 9-14.

Rajah, born over 100 years ago, is captured
and sold into captivity ; he travels from Assam
to India in a sailing-ship, ﬁghts through the
Mutiny, works on a plantation, becomes a
chief state elephant and attends the Delhi
Durbar of 1912 in that capacity. But when
the time came to leave Delhi and the elephants
were travelling by road, the call of the jungle
came to him and he was overborne by nos—
talgia :

My skin tickles all over—how good the jungle
smells! How good to swim across, to plunge
deep into, the jungle with the cool bree2es brushing
my back; to wander as I choose, calling no man
master!

No one heard Rajah “ as he passed across
the face of the sleeping camp like a huge black
shadow, and when the alarm was given, he
was deep in the jungle and still travelling fast.”
And there, in his homeland, the story leaves
him, roaming alone—a rogue elephant—-—the
subject of many a campﬁre story.

The early chapters describing the life of the
elephant in his jungle nursery, his introduction
to strange creatures, his education in elephan—
tine ways and lore—above all he is taught how
to use his trunk—are well told by the author.

“ Always protect your trunk,” his morher had
warned him over and over again. “ It is your

most valuable possession-—and the most delicate
one. Swing it clear from the ground and blow

61

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

down it gently all the time so that ants cannot
creep into it. An ant in an elephant’s trunk
spells death. Never trust your weight to unknown.
ground until you have tested it both with your
trunk and forefeet. Remember my w0rds and
no harm will befall you.”

It is evident throughout the story that the
author has a fellow-feeling for the wild life
of which she writes. The illustrations are:
good.

Riding With Reka. By “ Heather.” Illus—-
trated by Lionel Edwards, R.I. Eyre and.
Spottiswoode. 7s. 6d. net.

Written by a young girl of ﬁfteen (who un-
happily met with a fatal accident before the
book was ready for press), in the intervals of ‘
working for matriculation, this tale of horses
and ponies is a remarkable one. It is a good.
story in itself, not without its excitement and
its thrills, written in an easy and natural style,
the dialogue—and there is a good deal of it—’
being very well done.

“ Heather ” must have had an unusual.
understanding of horses, and their needs, and.
her “ sweet nature and quiet manner which.
resulted in quick conﬁdence between rider
and horse,” referred to by the writer of the:
foreword, will be realised by the sensitive-
reader.

The story, which reveals the author as a.
lover of Nature and an intelligent observer,
begins with the birth of the little black foal.
in the springtime. It follows his varying
fortunes, his ups and downs in a suburban
riding school, with riders good and bad, until
he is lucky enough to ﬁnd a young owner who
readily understands him. In telling the story
the ideal relationship between the rider and
his horse is indicated, and right methods of '
handling, training and general treatment are
implied and fall into place as essential and.
natural features.

We could commend this book to our readers.
without reserve as a specially acceptable and.
appropriate gift book for children and young
people who are keen on horses and ponies,
and have to do with them, but for the chapter
on hunting in which the brush is handed to‘
the heroine, who “ fastened it proudly to the
front of her saddle.” We are sorry about this,
for this will rule it out of court for a good
many who might otherwise well have made it
the gift book of their choice. The illustra—»
tions by Lionel Edwards are typical and very
attractive.

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Stories of 4 the Saddle. By C. R. Acton.
Illustrated by Maurice Tulloch. Country
Life, Limited. 53. net. 1

Five stories go to make up this book——

Peter, the Child’s Pony—Sam, the Polo Pony——
,Boy Jim, the Hunter—Dactyl, the Race
Horse, and Silverskin, the Charger. This is
not a book we can recommend to our readers,
because, although it is undoubtedly true that,
- :.as stated on the publisher’s wrapper, “ the
young reader . . . will discover the why and
—how behind choosing a horse, its training in
early years and general care, and will also learn
to appreciate the finer points of a horse,” yet
several of the stories, as is obvious from their
titles, centre around the horse as he is associated
with his owner in blood—sports of which it is
evident the author is an enthusiastic supporter.
Gordon, the human hero of “ Boy Jim,” is
introduced as “in every way except money, a
Master of Foxhounds in the making,” and we
.are told that there was not much fear of his
not being fit to ride in the local point~to—point,
because “ever since he became an upper-boy,
he had run with the Eton Beagles, and pound—
ing along over the holding plough that consti—
tutes most of the country of this pack, ensured
his wind being in fairly good condition.”

Us Dogs: Being the Autobiography of
Sambo, a Labrador. By G. Cornwallis—
West. Illustrated by K. F. Barker.
Country Life, Limited. 68. net.

The author of this book
in writing it has endeavoured
to show “ nOt what human
beings think about dogs, but
what I imagine dogs think
about us.” In the process she
has produced quite a read—
able story of its kind, with
here and there a sporting
savour, for children of the
ages of 9—14 or thereabouts.
One cannot draw a hard and
fast age line. \Whether, how-
ever the author has succeeded
in presenting a true inter—
pretation of canine thought
with regard to “ us humans,”
the reader must decide for
himself. It must be confessed
that the writer of this notice
ﬁnds it difficult to conceive
of any dog of any breed who Photo by]
would accept responsibility

December, [938

for the following utterance attributed to
“ Sambo ”:

Looking back, I’ve never understood why
“ real gentlemen ” invariably wear 01d c10thes
in the country, and still Older hats, the ribbons
always dirty, with nothing left of the original
colour. I’ve been positively ashamed at times of
the shabby turn—out of some of the local squires
I’ve met. Coats and knickerbockers (I once
called them “ plus-fours ” and mother said it
was a vulgar expression) stained and sometimes
patched, and stockings freely darned.

Lorna’s reply to sambo’s declaration of love
comes into the same category :—

Love matches between us dogs aren’t allowed
Sambo, unless we happen to be of the same breed.
We’ve no choice in the matter. Humans arrange
all that for us. They want to be sure that our
strain is kept pure, and that they can count on
the fact that your sons and daughters must be
perfect Labradors and mine perfect Cockers.
Humans don’t practise this themselves. . . .
They marry how, when, and where they please,
which accounts for some of the appalling failures
they make. They never stop to think what their
progeny may be.

The author, who in her Foreword tells us
that all her life she has loved dogs, has woven
into this story the encounters, excitements,
hopes and disappointments of Sambo’s life,
and those of his pals, and a certain amount of
instruction on how to bring up a dog, train it
and feed it. The twelve full—page illustrations
by that clever doggy artist, K. F. Barker,
deserve special mention.

 

[1. H. Stone

Family Carer.
62

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

December, I 93 8

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports

Seerez‘mgr: BERTRAM LLOYD, 4, Tavistock Square, London, W.C.I.

Overseas League Debate.

N October 11th last a debate, arranged
Oby the Forum Debating Section of the
Over—Seas League, took place at Over—
Seas House, London. The speeches to the
motion, “ That blood—sports should be abol—
ished,” proposed and seconded by Mr.
Douglas English and Mrs. Speedwell Mas—
singham, both members of this Society, and
opposed by Mr. Kenneth Diplock, Assistant
Secretary of the British Field Sports Society,
were followed by a lively discussion among
members of the audience. When the vote was
taken, the Chairman, Sir Jocelyn Lucas,
decided that a count was unnecessary, the
numbers for and against being about equal.
In his opening speech Mr. English laid
stress on the ethical aspects of hunting,
emphasising in particular the artificiality of
sport, while Mrs. Massingham drew attention
to the cruelty involved in stag-hunting and
the “spurious sports ” of coursing and the
hunting of the carted deer.
Mr. Diplock, in replying to the motion,
greatly amused the audience by comparing the

swift death by hunting, the actual suffering of '

which lasts only a few moments, with the
miserable natural death which wild animals
must endure if left alone, thus implying that
the hunting people are improving on the
Creator’s system.

Cheltenham Foxes Choose Hunting.

A dinner was given by Mr. W. W. Theobald,

a popular supporter of the Cotswold Hunt,
on October 22nd last, at the Plough ~Hotel,
Cheltenham, to the Cheltenham Branch of the
National Farmers’ Union “in return for the
many kindnesses and considerations of the
farmers for many years.” In proposing “ Foxf
hunting,” the Chairman of the Branch, Mr.
W. H. Smith, is reported to have said: “I am
sure if a fox could tell us, it would rather be
hunted than shot. It may be wounded and
run away to die. I think a fox, when it makes
a good run makes for a certain point and
knows a hole to get in.”——(T/Je G/oueerz‘err/Jz're
Ee/Jo, 24—10—1938.)

63

In the course of a letter neatly commenting
on this report, Mr. T. Barrable, a member of
our Society, reminded readers of Tbe Ee/yo
that after-dinner speeches are usually more or
less facetious, so that perhaps Mr. Smith must
not be taken too seriously. In a letter which
appeared on October 27th, signed “A. S.
Judge,” Mr. Barrable was taken to task, the
writer explaining that the Chairman’s remarks
were intended quite seriously. He went on
to say: “I am sure that if the fox had to
choose between the protection of the Hunt
or the protection of the Society for the Aboli—
tion of Cruel Sports, it would choose the
Hunt.”

It would be very interesting to know whence
Mr. Smith and Mr. Judge could have derived
such intimate knowledge of the workings of
the fox’s mind, one being' sure of the fox’s
preference in one direction, the other being
“sure ” in a different one. These quaintly
anthropomorphic views about wild creatures
are highly prevalent among hunting people;
and in View of this fact, the oft-repeated state—
ment by the British Field Sports Society and
its supporters that the opponents of blood—
sports lack all knowledge of natural history
must be regarded as distinctly amusing.

“ Keeping UP Foxes.”

We hear much from fox—hunters of the
necessity for the continued existence of Hunts
so that foxes may be kept down, but the
following plain statement by Captain Lionel
Dawson in 1726 Daily Telegraply (20—10—1938),
in an article on cub—hunting, suggests that
respect for the farmer’s poultry is but a
secondary consideration in the sport :—

Were the beginning and end-all of fox—
hunting the killing of foxes, it were un—
doubtedly the best way to achieve it if
none were ever allowed to leave covert,
and hounds were permitted to kill them

there while the ﬁeld kept the ring outside. . .

It may be conceded, I imagine, by all who

desire to have good hunts later on, that

any cub who may have the will to go away
may be permitted to do so.

.—-‘—e‘ r “e T M, L ; ~‘r:‘—‘~,ﬁ—_~—-,._:—___w=-"“ ...ur_:_—~ WW, 177:7» 7. ' * —: , .

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

December, 1938

The League fOr the Prohibition of Cruel Sports

Secretary: J. CLIFFORD SHARP, 7, Victoria Street, Westminster, S.W.I.

Protest Meeting Against Eton Beagles.

UNTING men and women were among
Ha large attendance who hooted and

booed and did their best to interrupt
the speakers at the League’s public meeting
at the Slough Central Hall on November 4th
to protest against the Eton College Beagles.
The supporters of the meeting were quite as
numerous as the opposition, and there were
constant interruptions, heckling, cheers and
counter—cheers.

Councillor A. S. Dixon, in the chair, said:
“ While children in our elementary schools
here are taught to love wild creatures, Eton
College is doing its best to nullify that object.”

Mr. Hamilton Fyfe, the President of the
League, said he had hunted the hare, but when
he saw what a cruel sport it was he felt himself
a cad and gave it up. He wanted to ask why
a man goes to prison for setting a dog on a
cat, whereas Etonians were privileged to set
thirty dogs on to a hare and were called “ jolly
good sportsmen.” A draghunt would be a
perfect substitute. Continuing, Mr. Fyfe
said: “We hope to get the .Eton Beagles
abolished. We have tried to get the Head-
master of Eton to come into the open and say
it is not wrong to hunt a hare until it is ex-
hausted and then tear it to pieces. But he will
not come into the open. He knows he cannot
defend beagling in public.”

Miss Ethel Mannin said : “ The people who
hunt are supposed to set an example to us of
the lower classes. I say that they should be
hunted themselves by a pack of bloodhounds.
It might stir up their sluggish imagination.”

Mr. Basil Johnson said that he had taken
part in almost all forms of sport and killed
many kinds of wild creatures, both great and
small, till he began to realise the suffering be
caused, and since then he had ceased to take
part in blood sports. He explained that one
of the objects of the meeting was to induce
those who indulged in blood sports to attend,
so that they might hear in what way they
were cruel, and the League owed much to the
Secretary of the British Field Sports Society
for inviting their members to attend. .

Mr. Johnson announced that since the
meeting had been organised and advertised a
record number of new members and sub—

64

scribers had joined the League, and that during
the past ﬁve weeks these totalled over 350.
He considered that the rapid progress of the
League and its undoubted success during the
past few years was greatly due to the progress
of civilisation, coupled with the increased
approval of the League’s aims expressed in the
press throughout the country, and their con—
tinuous disapproval of all forms of cruelty.

Mr. Basil Harvey—Jones told the meeting
that he was there as an old Etonian, not
wishing to attack his old school but jealous
for her honour and her reputation. He con—
demned the recent incident when an exhausted
hare collapsed on the Slough—Windsor Road
and was picked up and placed in the Eton
cricket ground in front of the hounds to be
killed by them.

During the meeting the Secretary of the
League read messages from, among many
others, the following ladies and gentlemen :—

The Earl of Listowel : “ \Vhen I was a boy
at Eton I must confess that on several occasions
I followed the beagles. Since then I realise
the terror and pain inflicted upon hunted
animals, and I never hunted a hare or a fox
again. When I was at Eton I never heard the
faintest criticism of beagling ; I believe that
if anyone had drawn my attention at that time
to the cruelty of this sport I would have given
it up. This is exactly what this meeting can
do, and I feel sure, as there are so many kinds
of sports at Eton, that do no harm to anyone,
many people will want to take up something
else when they hear what beagling really
involves.”

The Lord Calthorpe: “ I am personally
dead against all cruel sports involving terror
and horrible death to dumb animals. I would
think that the powers that be at Eton would
at once stop the College Beagles after the
revolting and disgusting treatment by the
Beagles of the poor, wretched hare that hap-
pened a few weeks ago. This blood lust is
not good for our future generation.”

The Very Rev. W. R. Inge, D.D. : “ I should
be glad to hear that the Beagles had been
abolished.” .

Canon A. G. P. Baines (Rector of Slough) :
“ Your League has my fullest sympathy in its
efforts to stop this so—called sport.”

- m" ’ ' :mmmm-w;u.. .

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.December, I 936’

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND '

The Humane ' Education Society

80, MOSLEY STREET, MANCHESTER, 2.

Presidmf: GEORGE ARLIss.

IHumane Exhibition and Bazaar.
THE ”large Memorial Hall, Manchester,

presented an attractive appearance on
Saturday, October 29th, when the Annual
.EXhibition and Bazaar was opened.

Speakers and visitors expressed admiration
:and surprise at the remarkable exhibits from
school—children; drawings, essays, poems,
handicrafts, posters, relating to kindness, peace
and goodwill to all creatures, had been sent
.in by girls and boys from schools all over the
country. These were well displayed, as were
the well—designed posters drawing attention
'to the value of the exhibits and of Humane
Education in developing practical ideals of
kinship between human beings, animals and
birds.

Children in several London and Lancashire
:schools excelled not only in interpreting the
.ideas they wished to convey in design, but
.also in skill of outline, colour and forceful
slogans. Many requests for further exhibitions
-of the work of the children are being received
at The Humane Education Society Offices.

A special stall aroused considerable com~
'ment and approval. Catapults, air—guns,
military toys, etc., were shown, together with
a large poster, urging parents, relatives and
:friends of children, not to buy these cruel and
dangerous weapons and toys.

Telegrams and messages of goodwill were
' read from :—-The Duchess of Hamilton, George
. Arliss, Yvonne Arnaud, J. L. Paton, Alderman
Sir J. Mathewson Watson, Miss Constance E.
.Andrews, E. A. Radford, Esq., M.P., Dr.
Walter Carroll, Sybil Thorndike, Lady Cory,
.Laurence Housman, Sir James and Lady
Douglas, Mrs. Bently Capper, Mr. C. Rawdon
Briggs, and many other well—known workers
:for child and animal welfare.

Madame Elizabeth Kenyon, President of
‘The Speech Fellowship (an organisation doing
: fine work amongst teachers and young people),
- opened the Exhibition and Bazaar.

Everyone appreciated the way in which
.Madame Kenyon spoke of ideals and service,
and the value of Humane Education as a vital
: factor in promoting right relationship between
human beings and people of other nations,
:and with the animal kingdom.

65

Semarang}: ARTHUR MIDDLETON.

“ Without these ideals and practical service,”
said Madame Kenyon, “ life lacks spirituality,
harmony, beauty and goodwill.” It was an
absolute necessity in these diﬂficult times, to
support The Humane Education Society,
which endeavours to cultivate, develop and
spread, principles of friendship, peace and
progress, thus eliminating all forms of cruelty,
crime and warfare.

“ The Humane Education Society, and its
kindred groups and circles, is doing wonderful
work to overcome fear, hate, suspicion, and
everything that leads to warfare upon human
beings and our friends the birds and animals.
There can be no'worthier or more noble work
than to train and teach young people the real
meaning of kinship and fairplay.”

The speaker concluded her address with
selections from great thinkers and writers.

Dr. Janet Morgan presided, and in a few
but well—chosen words told of her experience
as a medical practitioner and a traveller, con—
cerning the value of Humane Education.

A Delightful Entertainment.

At 7 o’clock girls and boys and several
teachers kindly came from the Bishop Bils—
borrow School, and gave a very enjoyable
concert. Their lovely songs and dialogues
were much enjoyed and were very appro—
priately chosen.

Mr. Tommy \Walker, formerly a member of
Henry Hall’s orchestra, and now a player in
a well—known band in Manchester, very
generously gave up a part of Saturday evening
to visit our exhibition and play several piano—
forte selections.

Miss Nancy Benson was the accompanist.

Sincere thanks were given to the head—
teacher, staff, children and accompanist. Before
leaving the hall the girls and boys recited the
prayer of St. Francis and then took part in
Community singing.

MY MONKEY FRIENDS. Told by Mrs. Charles
E. B. Russell, with 26 photographs by the Author.
Arrowsmith. gs. 6d. net.

Readers of this magazine will be glad to know of
this book in which Mrs. Russell tells in more detail the
stories of some of her friends whom she has already
introduced in her articles in THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

 




 

 

 

 

Tl—IE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

[938

December,

Pit Ponies’ Protection Society
H072. Seerez‘my: D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS, 82, Boundary Road, London, N.W.8.

An Open Letter to the

GENTLEMEN,——It is reported that at the
Fourth National Coal Convention which is
organised by the Coal Utilisation Council
to be held on November 23rd and 24th, in
London, a paper will be read by Mr. Iestyn
Williams, Joint Secretary of the South Wales
Coal Owners’ Association, on “ Pit Ponies
and Colliery Horses.”

As the subject of pit ponies and colliery
horses is one in which we are specially in-
terested, we venture to write this letter with a
view of making our own standpoint clear,
and also to emphasise certain facts in relation to
the adoption of mechanical. conveyors and
other substitutes for the use of horses and
ponies in mines. All our ﬁgures are derived
from ofﬁcial sources.

As you know, there has been a revolution
in mining methods in recent years. During

the past ten years the proportion of the total '

coal output got by machine—cutting has
increased from 25.2 to 55.5 per cent. and the
proportion of the total output carried by
mechanical conveyors at or near the coal—face
has increased from 11.42 to 51 per cent.
During the same period the number of horses
and ponies used below ground in mines
decreased from 56,758 to 32,901, a reduction
of 2 5,857.

As a conservative estimate, we venture to
say that mechanical conveyors and small
auxiliary motor haulages, now transport 60 per
cent, if not more, of the total output at the
coal face in our mines (where ponies and
horses are usually employed).

Only 1,183 ponies are now employed in the
mines of North Staffordshire, Lancashire and
Scotland, which, together, produce one—fourth
of our total output of coal.

The number of horses and ponies per mine
at work in the various divisions in 1937 was as
follows :—

Northern 57 Swansea 16
North Midland 21 Midland & Southern 11
Yorkshire . 19 Scotland 2
Cardiff 17 North—\X’estern I

The Northern Division, which {includes
Durham and Northumberland, employs more
ponies underground (13,907) than all the other
coalﬁelds in England and Scotland put

Coal Utilisation Council.

together. The Northern Division produced
49 million tons in 1957 as compared with
155 million tons in all the other coalﬁelds of
England and Scotland.

South Wales employed 7,595 horses under-
ground in 1957 and produced just over
59 million tons.

There are 544 mines (employing from 30
to 2,000 persons below ground) at which no
horses and ponies are used underground.

H.M. Divisional Inspectors of Mines for the
Northern as well as the North—Western
Divisions—areas with the largest and smallest
numbers of ponies, respectively—declared in
favour of removing all ponies from the
mines when giving evidence before the Royal
Commission on Safety in Mines.

The conclusion to be drawn from the above
ﬁgures and statements is in our opinion
inescapable, and it may be expressed in the
following quotation from the Norfb Mail and
Newearz‘le Cbrom'e/e, June 28th, 1958 :

“ Excepting those who breed pit ponies for
gain, everybody outside the coal—mining
industry—and a great many people in it—will
sympathise with the latest effort to ban the
employment of horses~ below ground. Even
if man can defend the enslavement of the horse
he can never completely excuse working him
‘in conditions wholly alien to Nature’s inten-
tions. Such explanations as are offered are
unacceptable now that efﬁcient systems of
mechanical haulage are available.”

I beg to remain,
Yours faithfully,
D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS,
Seerez‘my.

Ponies and Tubs.

Said the overman to a shifter in a pit in which I
worked: “ G0 and give us a bit more height in the
west ﬂat. Ponies and tubs are scraping the top.”

Hours elapsed, and the man didn’t return. And the
overman, going to ﬁnd him, saw he had undertaken
the herculean task of hewing away the solid roof.

“Haven’t you any brains?” he shouted. “ Why
couldn’t you scrape a bit of the loose stuff away from
the ﬂoor? ”

To which the shifter retorted : “ It’s the top that’s
catching the ponies, isn’t it? It’s you who wants
brains.”——-W. Lockey, junr., 127, Dorset Avenue, near
Chester-le-Street. »

(From [01272 Bull, 24-iX—38.)

66

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

December, 1936’

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisection

Hon. Seeroz‘mgx: MISS N. IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed).

Oﬂieer: EDINBURGH—Io, QUEENSFERRY STREET.

GLASGOW—147, BATH STREET.

OB] ECT—T/oe abolition of Vioireez‘ioli and l/oe Preoeiii‘ioﬂ of Sofferiﬂg to Animals who]? it midi/r.

ALL GOD’S CHILDREN.
BY THE REV. WILLIAM G. PECK‘, S.T.D.

HEN a Priest goes visiting in an
‘Xi English parish, calling upon people
who never come to church, he not
infrequently lights upon strange philosophies,
curious heresies, and unique objections to the
faith. A parish priest who is a friend of mine
recently rang the front-door bell of a house
which he had never previously visited, and his
summons was answered by a servant maid,
who, at his request, consented to inform her
mistress that the rector had called. In due
course he was ushered into the presence.
An old lady sat very upright in her chair and
surveyed him sternly. This he perceived;
but his mind was not entirely given to her.
He felt his attention wandering. He was
counting her cats, and he declared that there
were seven.

After a moment he collected his wits, and
explained that he had called, hoping that if
she were not a member of any non—Anglican
religious body, he might persuade her to
attend the parish church. To his great surprise
the old lady assured him that she had long
since rejected the Christian religion, and a few
questions elicited her reasons. She would
not accept a religion, she said, which had no
clear teaching about the lower animals.
Christianity, she asserted, did not tell her to
be kind to cats : did not, in fact, say anything
about cats : did not assure her that she would
meet her cats in heaven. And as she was deter—
mined to meet her cats in heaven, she would
have nothing to do with a religion so unsatis—
factory.

Before you dismiss this old lady as a lunatic,
however, will you consider the case of a very
great and distinguished Anglo-Catholic lay—
man, the late Lord Halifax, and his celebrated
dog? I have made that dog’s acquaintance.
I was once staying with Lord Halifax, a few
years before his death. His son, Lord Irwin,
as he then was, and not long home from his
term of ofﬁce as Viceroy of India, was with
us. And one evening Lord Halifax, looking

6

down on his dog, said that he hoped the dog
would die before he himself passed away,
because he was sure the poor fellow would be
very lonely without his old master. Lord
Irwin jokingly suggested that he might be
useful for the purposes of vivisection; and
his father replied with much fire, that he
would rather kill the dog with his own hand.

The dog had no pretensions to aristocracy
of birth. I am fairly knowledgable about dogs,
but I could not name the breed. He appeared
to be compounded of all dogs. But Lord
Halifax and this dog were devoted friends.
And now we learn from the new biography of
his Lordship that he intended, if the dog pre—
deceased him, to have him buried in the church—
yard. This caused great distress to his Lord—
ship’s chaplain, who discovered that Lord
Halifax was making definite plans. Were the
old dog to die, the chaplain, who was also in
charge of the village church, was to be per—
suaded to go away for a day or two, and in
his absence his Lordship would bury the dog
in the churchyard adjoining his estate. In the
end, Lord Halifax died ﬁrst. The dog died a
few days later, and was buried, not in the
churchyard, but by the side of the gate.

I give these two stories side by side, because
they set forth what many reasonable people
feel to be a serious problem. The old lady
refused Christianity because she loved cats.
Lord Halifax, a great Catholic Christian, so
loved his dog that he proposed in the dog’s
honour to break Church custom. What is the
true Christian attitude towards the lower

animals P
>x< >z< >x<

I have my own thoughts. There is a small ,‘

rough-haired terrier at my home. He came
to us three weeks old. He is now more than
ﬁve years old, and he has loved us consistently,
never shown a sign of bad temper to any of
us, has been glad when we have noticed him
and romped with him, and patient when we
have ignored him. When I am leaving home

<

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

he is sad. When I return, he is delighted, with
ecstasies of joy whicn I cannot understand.
When I was away for many weeks in America
he grieved and nearly died. When I had come
home at last, he was still very weak, but for
long afterward, if I were sitting alone, I would
suddenly feel his warm tongue caressing my
hand. If we are leaving him alone in the house,
he will watch us sadly from the window as we
go; but he bears no grudge against us.

He will lie by the ﬁre, sometimes, and turn
his dark eyes upon me. And I try to fathom
the mystery of his “ otherness.” For he is
“ other.” He loves bones and smells and
skirmishes with strange dogs, and I do not
understand these likings of his. He has a
passion for anything made of rubber. He does
not like tobacco. There are strange limitations
in him. But there is an essential decency, and
he is a gentleman and a good sport. What
more he may be, I have not read in the solemn
depths Of his eyes. He moves in a world other
than mine, yet somehow strangely near to
mine. And will the parallel of our lives cease
at the end of our present roads? Is it quite
unthinkable that they will continue in other
and still fairer fields? It is not unthinkable to
me. The dog, of all animals, has accompanied
man in the wild adventure Of civilization.
Maybe he will accompany us further. I am
sure St. Francis, as well as Lord Halifax, will
be rejoicing if that is true.

>I< * *

But of one thing I am satisfied : the old lady
who out of loyalty to her cats refused to go to
church, was quite mistaken about the Christian
religion. It may be that professedly Christian
people have been cruel to animals, and forgetful
Of their needs ; but it is not true that our Lord
left us without any word upon the subject.
Indeed, what He did say was something tre—
mendous. He declared that God was mindful
Of every solitary sparrow. And that is enough.
I take it that it means that God is so interested
in all His creatures as to place upon each one
its true valuation, and to bring each one to its
intended destiny. The animals may move
along lines other than our human path; their
scope is less; their possibilities more limited.
Some of them have bodily forms which
astonish or amuse us. But none Of them is
repugnant or ridiculous in the eyes of God.
And whether some, or all, or none of them
are destined to survive physical extinction,
I do not know.

December, 1936’ '

Correspondence

To the Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.
THE SURPLUS CA‘T PROBLEM.

SIR,——May I be permitted to sum up the various
thoughts that came to my head after reading your
extensive correspondence on this problem ?

I feel that this ventilation in THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND
has done much to bring before a wide public the fact
that the problem does exist. Some of it has degenerated
into the purely sentimental, which, in my opinion, is
a pity. ,

I feel that we must, as a movement, view the problem
as a problem to be met in a sane and business-like way.

I do not want peOple to think that sentimentality
does not play a part, but it must not be allowed to over--
rule our better intelligence.

We, as a movement, must remember that we are
dealing, if we desire legislation, with the hardest-headed,
set of business men in the c0untry, who are prepared
to view everything in the light of suspicion.

We must, first of all, prove deﬁnitely to our legislators.
the need for a new Bill of this kind. Much as we all
desire to meet this difﬁculty, purely from the suffering
caused to cats, we cannot hope that this angle will be
effective. We must, therefore, bring to their .know—
ledge that, were Animal Societies to give up collecting
stray cats, a problem would arise in this country
which would need immediate assistance from the
authorities and a vast expenditure of the public’s
money.

A time may come when the Societies may not be
able to afford so much of their time and such a large
proportion of their money to this type of welfare work.

All of this can ‘be short—circuited merely by increasing
the status of the cat, at least, to that of the dog. It
would mean, undoubtedly, a great number of cats to
be put humanely down immediately after the passing
of , such an act into law, but the same thing happened
when the Dogs’ Act was first enforced. Everyone
will admit that it has been to the benefit of the dog.

Controversy has raged about various types of
operations to be performed on the cat, but I am afraid
that in this discussion the main object, that is, new
legislation, properly enforced, has become lost—a
very great pity.

If this legislation became a law of the country, then
there would be no need to discuss whether cats should
be splayed or not. Obviously, it would not be of such
paramount importance.

Nobody doubts the sincerity of your correspondents,
but I would ask them to concentrate on the future
rather than the present.

We must progress, and until we do, all of us must
endeavour to continue to relieve as much suffering as
possible by any means that is in our power—also to
sink our personal differences to achleve the present
and the future objective.

Yours faithfully,
E. KEITH ROBINSON,
Secretary, Our Dumb Frieﬂds’ League.
Grosvenor Gardens House,

Victoria, S.W. I .

 

 




December; 1938

To Me Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.
HOODIE TRAPS.

DEAR SIR,—-I should be so grateful if you would
be kind enough to publish the enclosed letter in THE
ANIMALS’ FRIEND, for Mr. Purvis’ letter about “Hoodie
Traps,” often called “ Wainwright Traps ” (they are
one and the same trap), prove; what I sa , 213., the trap
cage itself may not be considered cruel, but the fate
of the decoy birds, and the other birds in the trap cage,
is often deplorable and disgusting. There are, I
believe, a number of these traps in Fifeshire.

Yours truly,
T. S. HAWKINS.

HOODIE TRAPS.
SIR,——I should like to call the attention of owners

of what are known here as “ Hoodie Traps ” to the I

great cruelty which may be occasioned by leaving
them in operation during the non—nesting season.

During the season they are, I hope, periodically
visited and the catch removed and destroyed, but later,
if the netting is left down, birds get in and die of
starvation and thirst. I passed one the other day,
near here, in which was the body of a hawk which had
got in and been left to perish miserably.

Yours faithfully,
R. \V. PURVIS.

Gilmerton House,
St. Andrews, Fife.
From The Field (Oct. 15th, 1938).

(Hoodie traps are for Hooded Crows, but there was
a splendid defence for the bird in an article in the
Sow/3 [Va/er Ed» by that excellent naturalist John S.
Clarke; he calls the bird man’s friend, “ a scavenger
who destroys harmful larvae and insects.”~T. S. H.)

To t/Je Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.

FOR THE WELFARE, OF ANIMALS.

DEAR SIR,——Mr. Basil Harvey—James, residing at the
address below is anxious to raise ﬁve pounds for a
speciﬁc purpose in connection with the welfare of
animals. He does not wish to borrow this sum, but to
earn it. Can any of your readers give him some
work to do which they value at ﬁve pounds (exactly)?
He is able to translate from French, Spanish or German
and info French and Spanish. He can also do proof—
correcting, precis—writing and typewriting (no speed)
or give evening lessons in English, French, Spanish,
History and Logic. Will any who might need his
services correspond with him at the address below.

Yours truly,

ADRIAN CONDOR.
I, Kelﬁeld Gardens, $7.10.

I 8th, November, I 9 3 8.

 

XMAS AT BOURNEMOUTH: Comfy,
sunny rooms at 22, Southcote Road. Central
near sea. Commended by H. B. Amos,
write for particulars.

69

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

 

GREY OWL

A brilliant review ofGrey Owl’s training
and his career. Rich in Indian lore,
sympathetic, authoritative and unbiased.
Well illustrated. A delightful inexpen-
sive gift to all lovers of animals.

by HARPER CORY, F.C.G.S.

Price SIXPENCE
Post free SEVENPENCE HALFPENNY
Special terms for orders of 6

or more to Schools, Secretaries
and Animal Welfare Societies.

Obtainable from the publishers :

ANIMAL PIcIomAL, Ltd.

(PRODUCTION DEPT.)
30 CRAVEN ST., LONDON,W.C.2

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS' FRIEND

1939 CALEN EITAR

Containing a quotation bearing on
Animals or Animal Welfare for each day
of the year, is illustrated on each of its
ﬁfty-two pages with drawings or photo-
graphs of Animals, and has a

SPECIAL COVER DESIGN
by Neave Parker

 

PRICE l/3, including postage, for single copy.

On Sale or Return to Bookstalls and
Organisations at lO/- per dozen, postage
extra. Unsold copies will not be credited
unless returned before December 20th.

Send your order to :—
ANIMALS’ FRIEND CALENDAR

I FEATHERSTONE BUILDINGS
HIGH HOLBORN LONDON, W.C.l

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS FRIEND December, 1938

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 60,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill—treated dog, by the circulation of many
thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.

Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog—welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.

S ee/és to prohibit the viw'seetion of dogs.

Membership 23. 6d. upwards.
CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE, ‘S.W.l

FOR HOLIDAYS THIS YEAR TRY

ILFRACOMBE IN GLORIOUS DEVON!

Mrs. James Allen’s Vegetarian Guest House in this lovely West Country is now so well known as scarcely .
to need advertising.

Established thirty-twoyears it is exclusively vegetarian.

Its liberal, varied, and well-balanced diet; the abundance of fresh fruits; delicious salads; conservatively

cooked vegetables ; the appetizing and nourishing soups, savouries, sauces, roasts, sweets, etc, have been enjoyed
by hundreds of guests.

DO COME, AND SEE FOR YOURSELF!

Send to-day for Leaﬂet giving full information. Terms are very moderate.
Miss NORA ALLEN, 33, Broad Park Avenue, Ilfracombe, Devon.

 

 

BRIGHTON & HOVE The Little Animals’ Friend

AN ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE.

 

Price 1%d. post free.
Edited by JESSEY WADE.

Ideal Boarding Establishment

Near Sea and Downs, generous STORIES, PICTURES, COMPETITIONS, ETC.
diet. Bedrooms, H. and C. ' Valuable in Schools and Homes.
water, gas ﬁres. Annual Subscription, post free, IS. 6d.

Moderate TWMI- Bound Volumes 1938. Price 1/9 per post

artixtie and attraetive Binding
Tariﬁ‘ : MR. & MRS. MASSINGHAM THE HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,
16 & I7 NORFOLK TERRACE, BRIGHTON 80 Mosley Street, Manchester 2.

 

 

 

 

 

The League for the ProhibitiOn Of Cruel Sports

7, VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S IV

President: HAMILTON FYFE

Secretary: J. C. SHARP Hon. Treamrer: ARCHDEACON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.

Just Published——

“COURSING—NATIONAL SPOET OR NATIONAL SHAME”
By Air-Commodore L. E. o. CHARLTON, C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O.
‘ Price 6d. post free

 

 

 

 

 

70

 

 

 

 

 




 

December, 1938 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

HUMANE EDUCATION IN SCHOOLS AND
HOMES WILL END CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

OUR SPECIAL CAMPAIGN IS YIELDING REMARKABLE RESULTS.

—__-_

DONATIONS AND GIFTS ARE URGENTLY NEEDED TO EXTEND THIS PRACTICAL WORK.

LEGISLATION.» IS SLOW AND UNSATISFACTORY. , /

Please help The Hurrane Education Society to go ahead with effective and enduring

L work for Horses, Dogs, Cats, Birds, and all Creatures in need of friendship
and protection.

 

Reportr, Leaf/err and journal gladZy rent on application Io :—
The Humane Education Society, 80, Mosley Street, Manchester, 2.
GEORGE ARLISS, President. ARTHUR MIDDLETON, Searetaty.

 

The International League of If You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join
St. Hubert The Cats Protection

Bisho ' '
( 1) Of Llege) League
This League has been instituted for the cessation The one SOCiety deVOted SOICIY t0 the welfare
of all forms of cruelty, including the slaughter and Of cats and kittens.

trapping of animals for human consumption and for

personal adornment. And for the purpose of bringing MEMBERSHIP 5‘/ = PER ANN UM,

before all nations the realisation of the callous taking . including the Society’s ofﬁcial organ,
of innocent life for sport and as a ﬁnancial proposition. “ THE CAT 9,

MEMBERS INVITED A _ M b h. S b . . 6d -
A [1 information from :—~ ssoc1ate em ers 1p u scription 3s. . per annum.

The Organismg Secretary, Write for Free Literature to :——The Secretary, 29,‘
I37, Church Street, Kensington, London, W.8. Church Street, Slough. Bucks.

 

 

 

 

National Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports

4 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.I.
Chair/nan: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Hon. Treasurer? LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretary: BI-ERTRAM LLOYD

New Pub/Wm: FOXHUNTERS’ PHILOSOPHY

A garland from five centuries

A SUITABLE CHRISTMAS GIFT ! Price 3d.

 

I R b h N C H 't l d
IN CASE OF SICKNESS =—- Niriiﬁ; 115156. 21111112. iii; fiiﬁdidagn
humane principles and it provides the kind of diet and treatment you would desire to have.

T P h' k f ' d . Th ' ° f
11“ TIMES OF HEALTH :_it:e:::i<tanltlsl a5; Jiliﬁidsbao; féilf’ngiré’n
a small Annual Subscription from you would be a very great help.

63-65, Erpingham Road, Putney, S.W.15
Telephone: Putney 6602.
Ont-Patient C/z'nz'e: 41, BAKER STREET, WCI. Te/op/Jone: WELBECK 8348.

 

 

 

 

Al/ ra/arerz'btiom and eonzaznnieatz'onr for- t/Je Magazine roan/(1 be addrerred “ T/Je Editor, ANIMALS’ FRIEND
Featberr/one Built/7.71465, Hie/J Flo/born. London, WKCJ.”

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

December. 1936’

 

(1 EDW. 8.)

 

Provide for the abolition of Vivisection upon dogs;

 

 

 

Prohibition of Vivisectton 0% Dogs (Scotlandl

BILL

and
for purposes connected therewith.

E it enacted by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with
B the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal,
and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows :—~

1.—(1) From and after the passing of this Act no person shall
perform any vivisection on any dog, with or without the use of
anaesthetics, and no person shall be licensed to perform any such
‘ experiment; - ,

(2) Any person contravening the provisions of this section shall V

be liable on conViction under the Summary Jurisdiction Acts, in the
case of a ﬁrst'offence to a ﬁne not exceeding ﬁfty, pounds, and in- the

case of a second or any subsequent offence to a ﬁne not exceeding-
one hundred pounds or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding

three months

2. Section ﬁve of the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876, in so far as
relates to dogs, is hereby repealed. .

3. This Act shall come into operation on the ﬁrst day of January,
nineteen hundred and thirty—eight.

4. This Act may be cited as the Prohibition of Vivisection on

20 Dogs (Scotland) Act, 1937, and shall extend to Scotland only.

(Bill 25)

THE SCOTTISH
TAlL-WAGGERS’ CLUB.

President—THE COUNTESS or HADDINGTON.

' Secretory—~“l\/1Ac,” c/o- MISS N. IVORY,

Please all talk to your Members of Parliament about the above Bill .
(introduced by Mr. Joseph VVestwood, M.P.,

to give it their support when re-introduced.

N. IVORY, Director, Scottish Tail—waggers’ Ctr/to.

‘ Amendment
of 39 & 40,

and extent.

10, QUEENSFERRY STREET, EDINBURGH.

in 1936) and ask them

A.D. 1936.

Prohibition
of vivi-
section on
dogs.

Vict. c. 77.‘

Commence—
ment.

Short title

 

 

 

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road, Redhill, Surrey. for the

Welfare, 1.

National Council for Animals'

Featherstone Buildings, High Holborn. London, W.C.l.

 




