YIVISEGTION AT HOSPITALS. .
DEMAND FOR A RATE-AIDED LABORATORY.

 

 

THE following important letter appeared in the Echo
(London evening journal), on the 13th of June, 1896 :—'

SIR,—The Lancet, of June 8th, in its supplement on
Hospital Sunday, used these words :—“ There remains now
but one thing for us to do, to implore the benevolent public
to remember that as the size of the MetrOpolis increases, so
the fund should grow, if the contributions are to be taken to
represent a voluntary rate to meet the wants of our sick
poor.” These words are perfectly correct ; but how can the
desired support be expected if the public is daily becoming
more and more dissatisﬁed with the management of our
hospitals? When we ﬁnd the Lancet, the chief promoter and
the most muniﬁcent supporter of the Hospital Sunday Fund,
classing vivisectors as necessary accompaniments of the
hospitals of to-day (as it does in its leading article of
June 8th), how is it possible, I repeat, for that increasing class,
which regards vivisection and vivisectors as crying dangers
to patients, to desire to support hOSpitals on their present
footing ? Look at University College Hospital with its ﬁfteen
licensed vivisectors, Bartholomew’s with its twelve, King’s with
its eight, and Guy’s with its six vivisectors, and consider how
it is possible for those who would fear to place themselves in
the hands of a vivisector to feel justiﬁed in supporting those
establishments. For over 20 years I have been the supporter
of a hospital which shall be nameless, because all hospitals
where there are vivisectors are tarred with the same brush.
Formerly, while holding the highest position as to manage-
ment of any hospital in the Metropolis, it had no licensed
vivisector attached to it, and one could safely recommend it
to one’s friends. First one, then another, licensed man was
placed on its staff. From the very ﬁrst I protested. I wrote
to the Secretary ; presently I went and saw him, placing in
his hands Ringer’s statements of the use he and others had
made of patients for the purpose of testing poisonous drugs
(these are published in his “Handbook of Therapeutics”). I
pointed out the constant connection between experiments on
animals and experiments on patients, giving also the names
of certain licensed men on the staff. The Secretary not only
showed no interest, but absolutely denied that one of the
men I named was on the staff at all. I insisted; he then
confessed that this man, though not technically “ on the
staff,” was a clinical assistant. Finding more vivisectors
appointed, I wrote to the Chairman of the Board calling his
attention to the grave danger, and sending him proof from
the statements of vivisectors themselves of how that practice
leads to human experiment, and expressing my fear that,
unless the former safe condition of the hospital were restored

 




‘2

I should ,be forced to withdraw from it, which for special
reasons I shrunk from doing. I should, however, be obliged
to do so, for not only did I disapprove of the present
conditions, but my name in the list of subscribers to any
hospital signiﬁed to those who knew me that I regarded the
place as safe for patients. The Chairman replied supporting
Vivisection, and expressed his hope I might be satisﬁed to
continue my subscription “anonymously.” This idea was
certainly original, but, of course, was far too original for me.
I had nothing to do, after some two years’ struggle, but
cease to subscribe. Now, this is what is going on in
hundreds of cases. What Mr. Wakley did for the medical
abuses of the ﬁrst half of this century—~abuses of which he
did not hesitate to say that “ you might as well remonstrate
with the devil as with such a constitutionally rotten concern’
as the Royal College of Surgeons was in 1826~we are bound
to try and do for the medical abuses of our day. But then
we must not provide funds for carrying on these abuses, thus
enabling hospital boards to snap their ﬁngers at any sugges-
tion we may make. I have trespassed very far on your
patience, I trust my object may plead my excuse.

Yours, &c.,
A LATE HOSPITAL SUBSCRIBER.

While the above letter describes what is no doubt the
existing state of things at the Hospitals, a deputation waited
on the Metropolitan Asylums Board on the 5th of June, 1896.
“ to urge the desirability of establishing a bacteriological
laboratory for public health purposes for the Metropolis.”
It was admitted that there were such laboratories where the
virus of particular diseases might be examined and veriﬁed
already in existence, but what was wanted was a place of the
kind erected and worked at the public expense. The
Metropolitan Asylums Board took time to consider, and there
is reason to fear that the project, which might be combined
with experiments on animals, may be pressed forward.
Seeing that there are already only too many facilities for
experimentation, any such proposal should be opposed to the
uttermost.

 

 

 

Published by the NACLION 1L A\11V1v1sno'1'10N Soornrr,‘20,VIo'1o11.1A
STREET, LONDON, S. W. 10. 97

Price $11.; 5d. per dozen; 3s. per 100.

 




