The Ollicial Journal of the League for 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports, Westminster, S.W.l.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

 

 

VOL. VIII. No. 7. JULY, 1934. ' 2d. “mmigi’ﬁfém’m

 

 

CONTENTS.

PAGE PAGE
VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR 50 GOOD HUNTING. BY ALAN KENNINGTON 52
RODEO PROTEST MEETING . 51 OTTER HUNTING

T/ze Editor accepts no responsiéi/ity for opinions expressed i7: sigrzed articles.

 

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 




Fifty

 

CRUEL SPORTS

july, I934

 

 

VIE WS AND

NbWS

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

Rodeo

The Public Protest Meeting announced in our
last issue against a Rodeo in London from June
9th, was duly held and was a great success, as
reported on another page. Since then there have
been developments, and things, we are happy
to state, have gone badly for the show. For in
spite of the fact that it has been well boosted and
that a sum of nearly £100,000 has been invested
in it, the Rodeo has, as the Daily Express says,
been “ a complete flop.” About 150 cowboys
and cowgirls and 500 head of cattle and horses
were brought half-way across the world to stage
the spectacle, but the British public would have
none of it.

Mr. TeX Austin, the producer of the rodeo, has
said that his cowboys and girls are “ broken-
hearted at the lack of public support,” which is
a very happy consummation of all the efforts put
forward by humane people generally to suppress
a show that should never have been allowed to
enter the country.

,Garden Parties ,

The Bristol Branch of the League ask us to
announce a Garden Meeting, by kind permission
of Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Taylor, on Saturday, July
21st, from 4 to 6 p.m., at Campﬁeld, Abbots
Leigh, Bristol. The President, the Rev. Canon
A. H. Sewell, will preside, and admission will be
by ticket, to be obtained from Miss N. M. Chap-
man, Hon. Sec., I10 Bayswater Avenue, Bristol 6,
not later than July 17.

Mrs. Drakoules’ Memorial

It has now been decided to close this Fund, and
all friends who have not yet sent a contribution
but are desirous of sharing in the Memorial, are
requested to send their gifts by July 31st, to the
Hon. Sec., 6 Kings Park Road, Bournemouth.
Cheques should be made payable to S. H. Hart,
Esq., and crossed Barclyay’s Bank.

9(- * 9‘-

AN ERNEST BELL MEMORIAL
(To the Editor of “Cruel 319mm,”)

The letter we print below from Henry S. Salt
raises the question of a Memorial to the late
Ernest Bell in a new form and from a different
angle. No one has a greater right than Mr. Salt
to suggest to humanitarians how he thinks they
would best honour the memory of our late friend
and colleague, and it would be difﬁcult to suggest
a scheme which, in our opinion, more happily
combines all the requisites of a perfect memorial
than an Ernest Bell Library.

One of the drawbacks of the humanitarian

movement is that it has no common centre where
all kinds of publications connected with it can
be seen and consulted. Mr. Salt’s suggestion
eminently meets this need. .

Mr. Bell’s interest in literature is well known‘
to most humanitarians, though it may be well to
state, for the beneﬁt of those not aware of the
facts, that he was practically born into a Library.
His father was the founder of the famous pub—
lishing ﬁrm of George Bell and Sons, London,
with which he himself was closely connected for
about ﬁfty years, ultimately becoming the man-
aging director. For over thirty years he edited
The Animals’ Friend and published books, pam-
phlets, etc., on animals, and few can have
given more of their time, their money and them-
selves to advance the Animals’ Cause than this
genial, gentle soul of York House, whom every-
body loved even though they did not always
agree with him. From every point of view, there-
fore, we warmly commend Mr. Salt’s proposal,
and have conﬁdence that if the matter is taken up
in the right way a suitable setting in London for
an Ernest Bell Library will be readily secured.

Sir,—-Old friends and colleagues, like myself,
have lately heard, with something more than sur-
prise, that the second deﬁnitely announced mem-
orial to Mr. Ernest Bell has now been abandoned,
this time, it is said, by the wish of his widow.
But with all possible respect for Mrs. Bell’s
feelings, I would submit that a scheme which
has been so widely discussed as the need of
recognising, in some way or other, Mr. Bell’s
great services to the cause of humanity, cannot
be allowed to drop thus helplessly; and as pro-b-
ably the oldest survivor among his fellow-workers
I venture to suggest the formation of an Ernest
Bell Library, which would specialise in humani-
tarian publications, and so be of service to future
readers and students.

The difﬁculty, I think, would be less to obtain
the books than a room in which to arrange them,
and if a Library could once be secured the rest
might follow. One’s thoughts turn ﬁrst to the

I British Museum; failing that, it is possible that

one of the various public libraries would be will-
ing to lend help in a matter which would be of
lasting value also to itself. Friends would cer-
tainly give or bequeath books for such a purpose;
I, for example, would hand over the publications
of the Humanitarian League and cOpies of the
Humane Review. ‘

Will you, Sir, lend your support to such a
project as this? Might not a small committee
be formed to carry it out?

HENRY S. SALT.

21, Cleveland Road, Brighton.

 




July, l934

 

CRUEL SPORTS

 

 

RODEO PROTEST MEETING

Three ReSolutions Passed

The audience that ﬁlled the ﬂoor of the Central
Hall, \Vestminster, on Thursday, May 81st, for
the protest meeting organised by the Animal
Defence Society against the rodeo performances
and animal “ ﬁghts to the death ” ﬁlms, was
impressive in its quality and had none of the
extravagance that mars too many protesting
meetings of animal lovers, but it was vigorous
in its applause, says the Manchester Guardian.

Three resolutions were passed. The ﬁrst, pro-
testing against all entertainments which provide
amusement and sensation out of the sufferings of
animals, was carried unanimously.

The second protested against rodeo perform-
ances of any kind in Britain and declared that
the Government had acted in opposition to
humane and enlighten-ed public opinion by facili-
tating the passing of legislation to remove the
worst features of rodeo but at the same time pro-
viding facilities for rodeo performances to be
held here. This resolution also expressed! the
opinion that the new Act would be ineffective
in preventing cruelty unless humane societies
had the right to appoint inspectors to guard
against it and the duty of doing so was laid upon
the police. It was carried with one dissentient.

The third resolution, which was carried unani-
mously, declared the present censorship of ﬁlms
to be unsatisfactory and inadequate, and called
on the Government to institute an effective
board of ﬁlm censors.

Mr. Tex Austin had been offered an Oppor-
tunity to express his views to the meeting but
sent no reply to the letter.

Miss Lind-af-Hageby presided. She said that
at the rodeo at Wembley in 1924 one steer had
its leg broken and another had its neck broken.
So many things were inherent in rodeo that the
promoters of the meeting felt the only proper
way would have been to forbid the participants
in this rodeo to come to England.

The Duchess of Hamilton gave a description
of what she saw during her visit to the rodeo at
\Vembley ten years ago, and said she was par-
ticularly impressed by the terror displayed by
the animals. The promoters had announced that
the performances were to be modiﬁed this time,
but force and violence were the essence of rodeo.

Something was undoubtedly wrong with the

present censorship of ﬁlms, she added. She had

seen in London ﬁlms that should never have been
passed, for instance, one depicting a bull ﬁght.

The cinema was showing pictures of cruelty that,

would never'be allowed in this country.
“ There is nothing in wild life as bloody as
man himself,” she said. “"There has been a

Fifty-one

terrible increase of cruelty lately and I put it
down largely to these scenes of violence.”

Commander Cather, B.N., explained that the
only peOple who had any real and ﬁnal control
over the exhibition of ﬁlms were the local
authorities who could lay down the conditions
on which they granted licences to cinemas. He
urged ﬁlmgoers to exercise their powers of ob-
servation and of criticism when looking at
animal ﬁlms of combat and violence, to notice
that while wild animals were ﬁghting in what
was supposed to be real jungle, cameras had
obviously been photographing the scene from
different angles.

INEFFECTIVE BILL.

Captain E. J. MacMichael had prepared a series
of posters to show the meeting how the new Pro-
tection of Animals Act had been weakened by
amendments which, he declared, had been in-
troduced by the inﬂuence of trade interests. The
draft bill had forbidden the roping and catching
of animals, but roping and catching had been left
out and now lassooing would be allowed.

Captain MacMichael asserted that under the
new Act a horseman could lassoo a calf by the
neck while he was galloping along, swing the calf
off the ground, and have it caught by a performer.
“ Do you like this section, ladies and gentle-
men?” he asked, and there were shouts of “No.”

He went through the Act in this manner, and
at the end the audience cheered him when he
tore a. copy of the Act in half as an ineffective
thing.

'X‘ -X- 96 *

The society had received a large number of
messages expressing regret for non-attendance
and supporting the protest. One came from Lord
Clydesdale who was detained by his duties at
Holyrood, and Mr. John. Buchan also sent a.
message of support from Holyrood Palace. The
Archbishop of Canterbury, the Bishops of Salis-
bury and of Barking, Sir Hesketh Bell, Mrs.
Galsworthy, Dr. Scott Lidgett, Dame Sybil
Thorndike, Mr. George Lansbury, the Duchess
of Atholl and others also sent assurances of their
support .

* * * *

An “Abominable Sin ”

“ There are two sins very, very difﬁcult to
forgive. One is , the other is cruelty . . .‘
Killing for amusement is abominable. There is
a growing feeling against what are called ‘blood’
sports and, I hope, the boys and girls of the
new generation may grow up, hating the killing
of animals or birds for pleasure.”

' Uncle Jack in the Scottish Congregationalist

 




 

Fifty-#two C R U E L

GOOD H UN TIN

SPORTS July, 1934

By ALAN
KENNIN G TON

[Reproduced by permission of the author, the “News-Chronicle,” and A. M. Heath and 00.]

All that evening George Scriven had been in
his element. It was the night before the last
Meet of the season of a famous West Country
pack, and Scriven, a stranger to the district, had
arranged to have his ﬁrst experience of stag-
hunting on the following day.

A large, shrewd, bluff, business-man in the
early forties, his enthusiasm for hunting had
been increased by the fact that he had taken to
it comparatively late in life.

He took an artless pleasure in hunting peOple
and hunting talk, so that his evening in the
crowded bar of the Chagford Arms had been
very much to his taste, .and the grooms, earth-
stoppers, and all the usual rag-tag-and-bobtail of
a Hunt had been impressed by his generosity if
not by his knowledge of the West Country and
its stags. '

Once or twice, as round followed round, he had
glanced with idle curiosity at the half-open door
of the bar-parlour across the passage-way, where
reigned a silence very much in contrast to the
healths, gaiter-slapping and hunting cries beneath
the foxes’ masks and stags’ heads in the bar.

It seemed to hold only one person—a tallish,
grey-haired man, with the high forehead of a.
scholar and a lean, almost fanatical face.

Once he had come to the door of the bar to
give an order, and a sudden silence had fallen on
those nearest to it.

Scriven had idly asked his name of a red-faced
little riding-master by his, side, and had been
ansWered with a sound between a curse and a
sneer.

' “ That’s Thorogoo-d—crazy Thorogo-od. We
reckon he’s touched. They say he was a writer
once, but he don’t seem to work now. Too busy,
I reckon, making himself a nuisance at the
Meets.”

“ You mean he hunts?”

“ Him hunt? Lord, he hates it like the devil,
and all of us too. Talk about bees in the bonnet——
well, as I say, we reckon he’s touched. You
know the crowd of crazy women that always
turns up at every Meet? They wave banners and
try to make speeches—all against stag-hunting,
of course. Well, T-horogood’s always with them.
Some of the Wickmore Vale chucked him in the
Tavy two years ago. Serve him damn well right,
the meddling old fool. Doesn’t he realise hunt-
ing’s most folks’ livelihood down here?”

Drink and good-fellowship combined had gone
slightly to Scriven’s head, and though to-morrow
was to see his ﬁrst experience of stag-hunting,
he {alt already a crusader "s zeal «on its behalf

and a desire to defend it talkatively against all
comers. ’
Moved by this impulse, he left the bar and
pushed open the door of the bar-parlour, where
Thoro‘good still sat alone.
*6 5K '36

Thorogood look-ed up in surprise to see a large,
check-suited form in the doorway.

“ Hope I don’t intrude,” said Scriven, waving
a tankard jovially. “ Tell you the truth, I need
a bit of a breather after those sportsmen in the
bar ”

“ Sportsmen?” said Tho-rogood, raising his
eyebrows. “ Would you call them that?”

“ Oh, come now. They’ve been telling me in
there how down on hunting you were. For the
life of me I can’t see what your arguments are.
I thought every one but the Anti-Blood-Sport
brigade agreed that a stag didn’t mind being
hunted—really rather enjoyed it at times. So
does a fox, so does an otter—so does any beast
that can match its own wits and speed against
ours?”

“ You think so? Then they show their en-
joyment in a curious way. Have you never seen
an otter Swimming slower and slower up and
down a. stream, and turning its head hopelessly
to try and ﬁnd some way out? Did that otter
seem to be enjoying it?”

“ Oh, that’s all sentiment. The beast’s num-
bed by then. Any hunted animal is in a coma
at the end of a run and death seems just like
falling asleep.”

“ How do you know? Does any cornered
animal lie down and wait for death? No, it
ﬁghts, one against ﬁfty, till its jaws are smashed
and it’s torn in pieces alive.”

Scriven, his tankard half-way to his lips, was
surprised by the quivering ﬁerceness in Thoro-
good’s voice.

“ Well, I think hunting’s priceless,” he said
rather weakly.

“ I think it’s damnable,” exclaimed the other,

 

with a. ﬂush on his thin cheeks. “ If only I could-

get back somehow on the hunters. But we’re
too few and weak, and it’s no good protesting
down here. This time a year ago a hunted fox
ran into my cottage and took refuge on a book-
case there.

“ Then a great ﬂeshy brute of a man came in,
without a word of apology, and poked at it with
a crop. It wedged its paws against the wall and
fought silently, desperately, and all the time it
seemed to be appealing to me. I cried out, but
no one listened. There were two or three girls

 

,
C




 

July, 1934

CRUEL SPORTS

Fifty—three

 

 

there, I remember, laughing and smoking cigar-
ettes. At last they got the fox down and the
hounds caught it as it fell.”

*- 9lé 9%

Scriven stirred uncomfortably. “ You take
these things too hard. What’s one fox more or
less? They’re vermin, aren’t they? If it wasn’t
for hunting, they’d all be shot on sight! ”

“ At least that’s a better death. But though
I’d like very much to convert you, I can see it’s
:no use our arguing. I loathe and detest the
pursuit and principles for which you and your
kind stand. One against many, weak against
strong—is that an ideal for a decent man?”

Scriven ﬁnished his beer and got up. “ I
shouldn’t worry too much if I were you. It’s
not such a bad death, after all—sort of ‘ killed
in action’ for a fox. Being torn in bits alive
sounds pretty bad, I know, but it’s over damn
quick. And personally I prefer to play a lone
hand. It’s always the other man that lets you
down—you learn that in business, all right. Well,
I must be making tracks.” .

“ You’re staying in the neighbourhood? ”

“Three miles away—over the hill at Little
Norton. My car’s battery’s run down, and it
seemed such a topping night that I walked. But
I want to turn in early if I can—I’m hunting
to-morrow, you know.” 7

“ Three miles, eh? ” said Thorogood, staring
curiously at him. “ If you like I can show you
a short out. It’s rather a secret of my own. It
will save you a good mile and a half, but it has
one objection—it’s private property. Of course,
at this time of night, there won’t be a soul about,
but if you object on principle to trespassing

Scriven winked. “Not so’s you’d notice it.
And if I do meet a keeper—well, I’ll give him a
run. I’m not so young as I was, but I used to
be pretty fast—Wing three, you know."

It was a perfect night in late March, with a

 

' high, bright moon, and the road stretched clear

and white ahead as they tramped silently along
it. After ﬁve or six hundred yards, Thorogood
turned down a side lane, that grew narrower and
rougher, and ﬁnally ended abruptly in an open
patch of turf. .

Twenty yards beyond and stretching in the
moonlight as far as Scriven could see, ran a
great wire fence, ten feet in height, and with its
meshes closely linked in a pattern of six-inch
squares.

it ¥ '1‘

Inside there seemed to be thick undergrowth
with clumps of ﬁrs beyond, through which ran a
straggling path.

Thorogood explained.
Dennison’s park and deer are his hobby.

“ This is Sir George
”He has

one of the ﬁnest private herds in the country,
and some of them certainly can jump.

“ I suppose they aren’t savage? ”

“ Sir George’s deer are both gentle and timid.
Almost as timid in fact as the“ stag you will
help to kill to-morrow. Your course, I think, is
reasonably clear. Once over this fence—a
simple enough feat in spite of its height—you
take that track. Follow it for a mile, and when
you get to a small hut, leave the path, bear right
and then climb the fence again. That will put'
you on the Little Norton road, and the village
lies straight ahead.” .

“ Much obliged, old man— I’ll need a good bit
of shut—eye to-night. Don’t suppose I shall see
you at the cross-roads to-morrow, eh? Well,
then—cheerio. ’ ’

“ Good hunting,” said Thorogood, and Scriven
turning at the foot of the fence, saw his shoulders-
shaking in silent laughter as he moved away.

He scaled the fence, drOpped safely to the.
other side, passed through the undergrowth, and
then strode down the track into the gloom of
the pines.

Everything seemed very silent, except for a
queer sort of whimpering noise that came down
the wind, and the trees and bushes seemed as
ﬁxed in the moonlight as details in a mezzotint.

916 9k 9K

The gloom of the pines began to oppress him,
and he stood for a moment with his head cocked,
listening to that distant whimpering.

He stopped suddenly half way through a bar:
He could have sworn that something large and
dark had melted into the patch of shadow beneath
a pine.

He stopped and stared, and for a moment
fancied he saw the flash of a pair of green eyes.

It had looked like a fox, he thought—there had
been just the suggestion of prick ears and a bushy
tail—but what fox was ever that size?

He began to walk faster still, and then stopped
abruptly again. The whimpering in the distance
had ceased, but far behind him he heard a faint
pattering sound, like distant raindrops on a roof.

Scriven resisted the temptation to break into
a run and began desperately to goad his mind?
into some kind of distracting thought.

He thought of Thorogood, but the memory of
those shaking shoulders was hardly comforting.

Then he tried to concentrate on the beauty and
size of the park; Thorogood had mentioned its
owner—what was the name?

Dennison, that was it, and for a second he
glowed with normal pride at his memory.

Dennison? Dennison? He had certainly

heard that name before; he must keep on trying
to remember just where he had heard it before——

 




Fifty-four C R U E L

July, 1934

SPORTS

 

 

otherwise he might be tempted to think that
that pattering behind him was growing louder
all the time. ,
'3 19 916
Then, like a thunderclap, came recollection.

He knew now Where he had heard it—only
that morning in, the inn at Little Norton: “ Sir
George Dennison,” the landlord had said, “ owns
most of the land round here. He’s a rich man,
too, but blowed if I’d spend my money the way
he does. He’s got the ﬁnest private zoo in
England, they say—lets most of ’em run wild in
his park They say he’s got more than forty
wolves ”

Wolves! That was the shadow he had seen, and
Thorogood was still crazier than they had said.

A howl sounded—not mournful, but triumph-
ant, hungry—and then another. nearer at hand.

Scriven, with an effort that seemed to dislocate
his neck, looked round, and there were the
wolves, 15 or 16 of them, heads down on his
trail and less than three hundred yards away.

The moonlight showed clearly the green glitter
of their eyes, and he even fancied he could smell
the rankness of their breath.

The fence was out of sight, but 60 yards beyond
him stood a small clump of pines—and “ Wolves
can’t climb,” “ Wolves can’t climb ” his brain
hammered jerkily as he began to run.

It was only 60 yards to the pines, and for a
heavy man he was a fast mover, and yet it
seemed to him hours before he was half-way
there.

*- ik *-

Then at last he was under the trees and, grasp-
ing a branch, he jerked himself upwards, hanging
for one sickening instant with his feet scrabbling
helplessly at the trunk.

Terror gave him strength, and with a ﬁnal
wrench that almost tore his arms from his
sockets, he scrambled astride the branch, as a
pair of foam-ﬂecked jaws snapped like a steel
trap below his feet.

The branch cracked, but he was off it in a
second and climbing higher.

Dust and resin rained down into his eyes and
grimed his streaming face, but he only stopped
climbing near the top of the tree, and then only
because he was trembling so that he feared he
must fall. He wedged himself in a crotch, wiped
the sweat from his eyes and forced himself to
look at the wolves below. They were sitting in
a circle round the tree, Waiting patiently, with

their tongues hanging out and the green points of

their eyes conCentrated unwinkingly on him.
He began-to stare at those/eyes, and staring

began to fancy them a chain of emeralds, mesr
meric in their glittering size.

As he looked, they grew bigger and brighter,
they were beckoning to him—then with a jerk he
caught a branch just as he began to topple
outwards towards them, and for a second or so
he hung there with his own eyes shut and his
face pressed to the rough bark of the tree.

He glanced at his wrist watch: it was only
half-past ten, and he had fancied it 12 at least.

He thought suddenly of Thorogood again, and
of the fox that Thorogood had seen killed.

Perhaps those were foxes down there, giant
foxes, demon foxes, waiting to avenge their
earthly brother’s death. He began to grow
querrulously indignant — what had he done to
deserve their vengeance ?—and from that he
passed to thinking of what he had said earlier
that night, and the crazy appositeness of his own
words came back to him: “ Being torn in bits
alive sounds pretty bad, but it’s over damn
quick ”

At half-past eleven he fell into an uneasy
sleep, and ten minutes later only just caught a
branch in time to save himself falling again.

With his handkerchief, tie and braces he
lashed himself as best he could to the branches,
and felt better until a new thought came to
trouble him.

The landlord had talked of a Zoo, and a Zoo
held all sorts of beasts, some of which must be
able to climb.

Bears could climb, and thereafter every bush
seemed to hide in its shadows a monstrous shape
that could both climb and tear.

Thinking of this he dared not sleep again,
though in any case the cold would have made it
impossible, and so for seven hours more he dozed
and raged and shivered and prayed, until Sir
George Dennison’s keeper's, armed with whips
and shot guns, at last heard his despairing shout-
ing and drove off the wolves.

*6 9!? *6

George Scriven works harder than ever in the
City these days, and his relaxations have been
notably cut down.

He never got his day’s stag-hunting after all,
for while the meet and the chase were on, he was,
sleeping ﬁtfully in a nearby nursing home; and
now he has sold his hunters, burnt his hunting-
crops and given up hunting for good.

In every way he is reckoned a shrewd, calm
and sensible person, and only on rare occasions
has he been known to lose his temper and ﬂare up.

That is when some of his acquaintances have:
declared that a hunted animal enjoys the hunt.
There Scriven violently disagrees, for he knows
better; he has been one himself. ”

 




