 

 

 

 

Malaria: Scourge of the

Human Race

BY

M. BEDDOW BAYLY,
M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

ISSUED BY
THE ANIMAL DEFENCE AND ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY
15, ST. JAMEs’s PLACE, ST. JAMEs’s STREET, LONDON, S.W.1.
AND 4, COUR ST. PIERRE, GENEVA.

(BUREAU INTERNATIONAL HUMANITAIRE ZOOPHILE).

Price Twopence

 

 

 

 

 




 

2

Malaria: Scourge of the
Human Race
By M. BEDDOW BAYLY, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

Tragic reports* of the devastation in human life caused
of late years in Ceylon by malaria, in spite of all pre-
ventive measures taken by the authorities, raise once
again the vexed question as to the value to the world
of the discovery of the alleged causal organism and its
intermediate host and conveyor, the mosquito.

In fact the well-known journal, the Medical World, of
March lst, 1935 (page 8), went so far as to confess that
“ the disastrous outbreak of Malaria in Ceylon has
served to demonstrate the fallacy of Ross that preventive
measures to localise the endemic were all that counted;
yet almost a generation has made little difference except
in certain areas,”——a statement totally at variance with
the claim made in one of the Research Defence
Society’s leaﬂets, “ Research and Suffering,” namely,
that “ tropical medicine has controlled malaria.”

This controversy derives an unusual intensity from the
fact that the discovery of the life-history of the malarial
parasite through the painstaking microscopical observa-
tions of the late Sir Ronald Ross in 1895 became, un-
fortunately, associated with certain experiments on birds,
Which he performed, apparently, with the object of
impressing his medical colleagues with the scientiﬁc
soundness of his conclusions.

It is well known to the reader that the simplest, if
not the only way, to obtain recognition for any medical
theory at the present day, however obvious or however
stupid it may be, is to show that it has been based upon
experiments on animals.

As to Sir Ronald Rose’s experiments in infecting birds,

*Brz‘tish Medical Journal, February 2nd, 1935, p. 209; Lancet, March
23rd, 1935, p. 693.

 

 

 

1T

 




 

 

 

3

they were quite unnecessary and added nothing of value
to his clinical and microscopical investigations on man.
In fact, it was later recognised that they had so little
to do with human malaria that in 1900 a Commission
from the Tropical School of Medicine considered it neces-
sary to carry them out on human volunteers before his
theory could be accepted.

The indirect result, however, of his animal experiments
was that, quite illogically, the whole of his deductions
and theories became credited to that type of research
known as vivisection; consequently, the problem of
malaria has been included among those for the solution
of which vivisection is alleged to be necessary and
justiﬁable.

Moreover, instead of allowing his discoveries to take

their natural place among many others which have added
to our knowledge concerning the origin and prevention
of malaria, an altogether unwarranted importance be-
came attached to them, and medical correspondents in
the Press vied with each other in ill-concealed attempts
to promote the material welfare of the discoverer. To
him, as a disinterested scientist, as well as a man
genuinely desirous of beneﬁting mankind, this advertising
campaign, in which he was extolled as “ one of the
greatest heroes of mankind,” who had saved millions
of lives, must have proved, we should imagine, a
humiliating experience.
. It is on account of the misguided efforts of those who
claim an exaggerated and exclusive value for the
mosquito-parasite theory, and not in any sense as a
personal criticism of the originator, that the following
attempt to estimate the real value of Ross’s discoveries
to the world has been made.

Authoritative Criticism

Sir William Osler, in the 8th Edition of his standard
text-book, “ Principles and Practice of Medzcme ”
(1912), wrote: —

 




 

4

“ In the discovery of Laveran* there lay the promise of
beneﬁts more potent than any gift science had ever offered
to mankind—viz., the possibility of the extermination of
malaria. By the persistent missionary efforts of Ross the
promise has reached the stage of practical fulﬁlment and
one of the greatest scourges of the race is now under control.”
(p. 255)

Later opinions, equally authoritative, can hardly be
described as so optimistic. The Malaria Commissmn
of the Health Organisation of the League of Nations
confessed in their Report in 1927:

“ When the discovery of the mosquito cycle of the parasite
was made, it was almost universally believed that a single
simple method had been put within our grasp, capable of
application in all malarious districts. Since then nearly
three decades have passed, and such a method is still to

seek ” (p. 9). . .
“ The history of special ‘ anti-malaria campaigns ’ is chieﬂy

a record of exaggerated expectations followed sooner or later
by disappointment and abandonment of the work.” (loc. cit.)

“ In some countries (the Report continues) hardly anything
has retarded the effective control of malaria so much as the
belief that, because mosquitoes carry malaria, their elimina-
tion should be the object of chief concern and expenditure.”

(ibid., p. 13)

In fact, the whole of this Report, issued by the Health
Committee of the League of Nations, is a powerful in-
dictment of the crude and narrow View of the problem
of malaria which resulted from the indiscriminating
adoption by medical science of the “ Ross ” theory of
malarial causation, to the entire exclusion of other
explanations, however convincing the evidence in sup—
port of them might be.

Problem of Malaria World-wide

That the problem is indeed world—wide and pressing
for solutlon was stressed in the Report of the Medical
Research Council (1931-2), when they confessed:

“ The common and erroneous belief that the Manson-Ross

*Laveran was the ﬁrst to discover by means of the microscope the

parasitical bodies in the blood, whose life-history was subseduently
e1uc1dated by Ross.




 

5

discovery has freed the world from malaria has had some
disastrous results in checking the development of further
research work.

“ Nearly forty years have passed, and yet the best available
evidence indicates that the total number of sufferers from
malaria has increased rather than diminished.” (p. 15) _

In an article in “ The Listener ” (published by the
British Broadcasting Corporation), of April 19th, 1933
(p. 637), a medical writer mentioned that in 1908 an
epidemic of malaria had prostrated almost the entire
population of the Punjab in British India. Among
further instances of the ravages of the disease, which
occurred during the late war, he cited the case of the
French army corps under General Sarrail which was
reduced in Macedonia from a strength of 115,000 to
20,000 within a year. The General had to report to the
French Government that his army was immobilised in
hospital. ' ,

This writer estimated that ” about one—third of all
the inhabitants of the world are affected by malaria and
that it causes every year at least 3—;— million deaths, of
which the great majority occur in the British Empire.
That ﬁgure will help you to realise why malaria has been
called the greatest single destroyer of the human race.”

According to the Medical World, November 16th, 1934,
“ Fifty per cent. of all deaths in the state of Mysore are
traceable to malaria, its Victims numbering 50,000 in
1933, While for each death from malaria there are at
least ten sick and debilitated persons, bringing the annual
total of malaria victims to half a million at the lowest
estimate.” ‘

In the United States, we learn from. Public Health,-
January, 1935: ’

“ Malaria is one of our major problems, there being between
6 and 7 million cases annually in this country.”

“ The present year has shown (in spite of extensive» drain-
age works) an increase greater than any observedfor 20 years.
The disease has extended north and even invaded at least
one area which had never before been on the malarial map.
The cause is not evident . . . .” (p. 137) '

 




 

 

 

6 .

Problem Still Unsolved

Finally, as regards the outbreak in Ceylon, already
mentioned, the Medical World, April 3rd, 1936 (p. 176),
declared that:

“ Notwithstanding all the scientiﬁc research neither the
admirably drawn report of Col. Gill, the ofﬁcial Government
adviser, nor two discussions at the Royal Societies of
Medicine and of Tropical Medicine have shed much light on
the actual causes of the epidemic. Col. Gill himself, admitting
the fact, lamented that for all the advances of the last 50
years, science was still impotent to prevent such disasters
or check their course materially.”

Even from these brief extracts it becomes evident that,
whatever part the mosquito may be found to play, there
are other factors to be taken into account which have
an important bearing upon the incidence of malaria.
In the light of further evidence to be submitted later,
showing that malaria can be controlled even when there
has been no diminution in the number of the particular
species of mosquito, this conclusion becomes a certainty.

But ﬁrst let us consider one of the fundamental mis-
conceptions which have made it so difﬁcult for the
protagonists of what we may call the “ mosquito
theory ” on the one hand, and the “ environment and
soil theory ”‘ on the other, to reconcile their apparently
opposing points of view, or even to consider each other’s
arguments without undue heat.

A Primary Fallacious Assumption

The fundamental fallacy to which I refer is the almost
universal practice in orthodox Medicine of confusing
symptoms with the disease itself.

This had led to the ﬁrmly rooted and widely held
belief that if certain symptoms commonly associated with
a disease are manifested, therefore the particular under-
lying disease must be present. In fact, ‘clinical diagnosis
to-day consists in tabulating a list of symptoms and then
ﬁnding a named disease which approximates most closely
to this composite picture, or syndrome as it is called.




7

This has tended to exaggerate the importance of super-
ﬁcial signs to the exclusion of fundamental disturbances
of metabolism which underlie them. Even when it has
been sought to associate symptoms with pathological
conditions of the organs of the body, the true conception
of the disease process has been vitiated by the Pasteurian
belief that these pathological changes are to be traced
to the action of invading micro-organisms or germs.

It has not been sufﬁciently realised that symptoms,
pathological changes and the presence of bacteria are
merely the outward manifestations of an underlying
disease-condition whose cause lies in the biological,
nutritional and generally hygienic and social habits of
the individual.

All that the micro-organisms, which normally inhabit
or have invaded the body, can do is to produce symptoms
which will vary according to the pre-existing state of the
body regarded as a complete organism.

I have developed this theme at greater length else-
wherel; the important principle that emerges and
needs especial emphasis here is that neither individual
symptoms nor the demonstration of the presence of
micro-organisms constitute proof of the existence of the
disease with which they may sometimes, or even often,
be associated. The failure to recognise this fact has
led to a particular confusion of thought in regard to the -
causation of the disease which has been called
“ malaria.”

The Signiﬁcance of Symptoms

That symptoms resembling those seen in naturally
acquired disease may be evoked by chemical substances
derived from the vegetable, or even the mineral kingdom,
has been well known among homoeopaths since the days
of their founder Hahnemann; they constitute the
” provings ” by which each substance is tested on the
human body, and on which their whole system of treat-
ment is based.

 




 

 

 

 

 

8

But even among allopaths it is becoming recognised
that *many symptom—pictures hitherto regarded as the
outcome of deﬁnite disease may be artiﬁcially produced
by the injection of various substances; moreover, in
certain instances the idea is gaining ground that these
symptoms, so far from calling for suppressive measures
as hitherto, are part of the beneﬁcial healing processes
of nature. Hence, in the treatment of natural disease,
substances are injected into the body with the deliberate
intention of provoking symptoms and thereby assisting in
the curative process. As instances one might mention the
injection of salicylates or other substances to promote
artiﬁcial thrombosis in the treatment of varicose veins,
and the injection of sulphur or sterile milk to produce
artiﬁcial pyreXia (fever) in the treatment of arthritis.

To enter into a technical discussion as to the nature
of these “ reactions ” of the body would take us beyond
the limits of our subject and our space. The student
will ﬁnd such details and much food for thought in the
writings of Mr. J. E. R. McDonagh.2

Put very brieﬂy, it may be said that in any individual
whose, blood has been sensitised (bio-chemically altered)
by pre—existing disease conditions (not necessarily mani-
fested. by the occurrence of any named disease) the
injection of certain substances, either inorganic or
organic, may produce symptoms of shock: shivering,
rigor, pallor, sweating, collapse, and even death—in a
word the more profound effects which are usually
attributed to speciﬁc and named diseases.

We see, therefore, that the symptoms following the
bite of the anopheles mosquito may be explained as
a non-speciﬁc reaction of the blood-system to the intro-
duction of a foreign substance, protein in character.
Even quinine itself, the drug given to combat the
disease, may induce an attack of “ ague ” only
paralleled by that exhibited in the natural disease;* in

*According to E. J. W. Porter, Major, R.A.M.C. (retd.), “ A soldier
of the West Indian Regiment told me that his bi-weekly dose of

quinine was invariably followed b an attack of a .” Th ,
July 26th, 1919, p. 175.) y gue ( e Lancet

‘




r‘

9

fact it was this phenomenon which, as students of
Homoeopathy well know, led Hahnemann to the choice
of this remedy.8 The different types of ague (tertian,
quartan, quotidian) ﬁnd their explanation in the varying
life-cycles of the parasite, which result in fresh increments
of the foreign substance being liberated into the blood
stream.

Let us not, however, fall into the error of concluding
that the “ ague ” attack represents the whole of that
disease condition which constitutes “ malaria ” as we
ﬁnd it naturally occurring; or that the mosquito and its
parasite are anything more than contributing factors
which determine the particular nature of the symptoms
by which the underlying disease reveals itself.

Everyone knows that an insect bite may make some
individuals dangerously ill, or even prove fatal, while
others, in no way differing in apparent health, remain
comparatively unharmed. The contrast in the two cases
is obviously due to a difference in blood-reaction
depending in its turn on antecedent causes residing in
the life-habits of the individual concerned.

Experimental “ Malaria ”

Experiment has shown that some people voluntarily
submitting to infection by mosquito bites develop
symptoms which appear identical with those occurring
in the naturally acquired disease. This fact, however,
does not establish any primary causality between the
invading parasite and malaria itself.

On the contrary, there are well-established facts which
will not ﬁt, in with this theory. For instance, according
to M. D. O’Connell, M.D., in malaria the symptoms
may appear long before the parasite.4

Indeed, he declared in the Practitioner, January,
1921:

“ It is admitted by malariologists that Laveran’s bodies are

sometimes found swarming in the blood of some, especially
children, whose body temperature is normal, and who are

 




10

in perfect health; whilst in some others, who are suffering
from a clinically typical malarial fever, not even one paraSIte
can be found, even by experts after diligent and repeated

search.” (p. 72)

The malarial treatment of certain forms of syphilis has
shown that many persons, especially among the coloured ,
races, are unaffected by the introduction of the parasite,
and this is not to be explained by immunity through ‘
previous attack, for repeated attacks of malaria are of _
common occurrence.

In fact, it would appear that just as in the case of other .
invading organisms, Koch’s postulates, which would
establish the parasite as a speciﬁc cause of disease, remain

unfulﬁlled.

Mosquitoes without Malaria

)

What is termed “ anophelism without malaria ’ is
dealt with later in this article, and, again, is difﬁcult to
reconcile with the Ross theory, the explanations offered
being too fantastic for credibility. The following, taken
from the Report of Dr. D. C. Sword, the Cairns Shire
Council’s Medical Ofﬁcer, appeared in the Cairns Post,
Queensland, of February 14th, 1929, and is a typical
example of this kind; of evidence:

“ It is remarkable that the annual number of cases of
malaria are so few, when it is considered that the required
species of mosquito is prevalent, and that there are sufﬁcient
cases in the area, together with the number that enter it from
other infected areas, to serve as carriers.”

Can Conﬂicting Theories be Reconciled?

 

In face of the foregoing facts and arguments would
it not be Wiser for disputants as to the actual relationship
between the anopheles mosquito and malaria to consider
the suggestion that environmental factors, including
faulty drainage of the soil, poor nutrition, and so on,
result in a fundamentally diseased state of the whole

 

 

 




ll

bodily organisation, wherein germs or ” malarial”
parasites if they gain entry, may produce symptoms
which we have through superﬁcial thinking come to
regard as the whole disease.

No better advice could be offered in this connection
than the precepts laid down by Sir Patrick Manson
himself when he wrote:

“ Never refuse to see what you don’t want to see, or what
may go against your own cherished hypotheses, or against
the views of authorities. These are just the clues to follow
up, as is also, and emphatically so, the thing you have never
heard of or even seen before. The thing you cannot get a
pigeon-hole for is the ﬁnger-point showing the way to
discovery.”5

There is a good deal of scientiﬁc evidence, accumu-
lated during recent years, which lends strong support
to the above View of the causation of malaria, and the

rest of this article will be devoted to examining it.

Evidence in Support of Soil and Hygiene Theory

For a logically sustained argument in favour of the
theory which would derive malaria from sub-soil emana-
tions and the general sanitary and social conditions of
the population it would, perhaps, be difﬁcult to point

to a more masterly and useful work than that written

by Elliot Fitzgibbon, B.A., B.A.I., entitled: “ Malaria;
the Governing Factor.”*

It is not our purpose to discuss in detail this theory,
which he supports from the point of view of a sanitary
engineer, but the opinion of one of the leading authorities
of the orthodox “ Ross ” school of thought, Major
General Sir Patrick Mehir, quoted by Mr. Fitzgibbon,
may not be inappropriate here. He states:

“ The author’s personal experience, extending over thirty-
four years, during ten of which he has been Health Ofﬁcer

in a locality where malarial fevers are endemic, is that there
is an intimate relation between the height of the subsoil

‘The C. W. Daniel Co., London (Price 55. net).

 

 

 




 

 

12

and malaria. Indeed the literature and experience throughout
India force on us the conclusion that a persistently low ground
—water 1eve1———is unfavourable to malaria, that a persistently
high level . . . . is unfavourable to malaria, and that a level
which ﬂuctuates is liable to be most malarious.”

For those readers, however, who may object that Mr.
Fitzgibbon’s book is an ex parte statement of the case,
it will prove more convincing if we cull our evidence
from sources which are beyond such criticism, namely,
the Malaria Commission of the Health Organisation of
the League of Nations.

Even in their ﬁrst Report on malaria (1924) they ex-
pressed the View that “ there was no correlation between
the number of anopheles and the amount of malaria; in
some places there were enormous numbers of anopheles
and no malaria; in other places, a relatively small number
of anopheles produced intense malaria. In these circum-
stances antilarval measures seemed irrelevant, and the
Commission advocated social measures on the lines of
improvement in housing and nutrition, and medical
assistance. ’ ’ 6

This at least implies that there are other factors to be
considered besides the “ Ross ” theory; in fact, in their
second general Report (1927) they go so far as to say:

“ Our opinion is that it is very desirable in certain cir-
cumstances to throw off the tyranny which that belief has
exercised over men’s minds during the last thirty years.”

“ Since the advent of the new knowledge of the transmission
of malaria by mosquitoes, there has been a tendency to forget
that there are many methods of dealing with the disease,

and that some of them are effective even without any attempt
being made to reduce mosquitoes.” (p. 13)

Boniﬁcation

This statement was made largely as a result of their
investigations into the Italian anti—malarial methods,
known by the term—Bonifz'cation. This signiﬁes all
work carried out with the object of making regions that
are periodically or permanently marshy more healthy

 




 

13.

and more suitable for agriculture, and includes the im-
provement of the housing conditions, drainage, clothing
and feeding, and the general hygienic surroundings of
the population. It does not necessarily involve any
direct attack upon the mosquitoes or their larvae.

In fact, the Commission points out that, while in some
cases such measures may lead to a reduction or even
complete abolition of breeding places, there are other
boniﬁcations, “ which provide an actual increase.”
They sayzl “ it is now known, quite deﬁnitely, that the
open ditches and canals by which swamps and marshy
areas are drained for agricultural purposes are often
more proliﬁc breeding places of anopheles than were
the original swamps themselves.” (I bid., p. 28.)

In consequence they declare: “ We cannot admit that
the diminution of malaria caused by boniﬁcation is
attributable to a reduction in the number of breeding
places.” (Ibid., p. 87.) p '

On the other hand, they record that “ When the
inhabitants of reclaimed and highly cultivated land are
not permitted themselves to reap the advantages of the
increased productiveness of the soil, no improvement in
malaria results.”

The Commission is at pains to emphasise, therefore,
that the most important anti-malarial factor in general
schemes of boniﬁcation is the change in the conditions
of life of the inhabitants, and it is pointed out that
“ reduction of malarial incidence and severity have often
been brought about in the absence of any measures
intentionally based on modern knowledge of the aetiology
and epidemiology of malaria.” (2nd General Report,
p. 29.)

In fact, as regards the whole of the anti-malarial
campaign in Italy they state:—

“ In the world generally there is a wide-spread misappre-
hension of Italian anti-malarial methods. This misunder-
standing is evidenced by thefact that large boniﬁcation works
had been carried out long before the discovery of the trans-

mission of malaria by mosquitoes. Therefore it may be useful
to state categorically here that Italy does not carry out large

 

 




 

 

14

and small drainage works with the object of getting rid of
anopheles mosquitoes, nor does she place anti-larval measures
in the forefront of her anti-malarial programme. Indeed, she
places very little reliance on anti-larval measures except in
certain well-deﬁned conditions . . . . ”' (p. 19)

As an illustration of this principle details are given
of an area in Sicily which had been “ so malarious that
it was uninhabitable.” In spite of the fact that “ no
.anti-larval or other methods of mosquito destruction were
tried and that both larvae and adult insects are still
present in the area in quite sufﬁcient numbers for malaria
to spread,” the district at the end of six years became
an instance* of “ anophelism without malaria.” (I bid.,

p. 30.)
Pre-Ross Anti-Malaria] Methods Effective

That such measures have been known to be effective
for centuries, and are by no means dependent on modern
knowledge is fully recognised by the Commission. They
say:

” It is wise not to forget that some of them were effective
long before the malaria parasite and its vital association with
a mosquito of any sort had been discovered. In this con-
nection, we may repeat that England, the Netherlands and
Denmark are examples of countries in which malaria was
robbed of its importance as a cause of sickness and death,
without any knowledge of the epidemiology of the disease
and without any reduction of anopheles having occurred. In
various other parts of Europe this is happening to-day.”
(p. 13) '

Laveran, the ﬁrst observer to describe the parasites
which are to be found in the blood of many malaria
patients, and on this account bear his name, was well
aware of this. He wrote:

“ Holland, with its ﬂat and marshy coasts, was formerly
one of the chief centres of malaria infection in Europe . . .
The magniﬁcent work that has been carried out to protect

the coast—line against the sea, drainage and culture of the
5011 have greatly reduced the extent of endemic malaria.”

*A_ further example of this has already been mentioned under the
heading " Mosquitoes without Malaria.”

 




 

15

Or again, to, come nearer home:

“ Malaria fevers were once common in London . . . marshes
in the neighbourhood were dried up and their disappearance
was accompanied by the disappearance of the fevers . . . In
Ireland . . . drainage rid the country of endemic malaria.”7

We must not overlook the fact that even in England
at the present day the “ distribution of the areas which
are still liable to the occurrence of locally contracted cases
of malaria is very much the same as it was six decades

or more ago . . . . The rural towns and villages of
England which formerly were malarious are still poten-
tially so.”8

The reason that malaria has “ come ﬁnally to be of
little or no importance as a cause of sickness and deat ”
is not because of the absence of infective mosquitoes,
for four different varieties of anopheles (out of the 214
species of “ malarial ” mosquitoes) are quite abundant
in many parts of this country.*

Malaria a Social as Well as a Sanitary Problem

Rather must the reduction be attributed to the social,
economic, housing and general sanitary improvements
which have taken place—in other words, the “ auxiliary
factors in the epidemiology of malaria,” on the im-
portance of which the Commission lays such marked
emphasis.

Indeed, they consider the principle so self-evident that
they state:

“ It is hardly necessary to say that when as sometimes
happens reclaimed land is worked by hired labourers, who
receive only a small ﬁxed wage and live a life of great hard-
ship in temporary huts and hovels, there is no improvement
of malaria among them. Indeed, in the Tropics, highly
cultivated areas where these conditions obtain continue to be
among the most malarious in the world.”10

The ﬁnal conclusion of the Commission was that
'In fact, “listeners ” were invited by the B.B.C. in 1933 to assist’ in
collecting data concerning the habits of these insects, the problem being

complicated by the interesting fact that almost every single one of
these 214 varieties differs in some respect from the others in its habits}

 

 




 

 

16

“ the ﬁght against malaria must be waged not as a
separate and isolated task but as part of a general, social,
economic and sanitary campaign directed by an en-
lightened public health service.” (p. 95.)

Conﬁrmatory Experience

Since the issue of this Report in 1927 further investiga—
tions made on behalf of the League of Nations have
served to support their conclusions.

In his survey of the conditions in Siam in 1931,
Ludwig Anigstein, M.D., Ph.D.. draws attention to the
fact that “ the population of the capital, Bangkok, al-
though heavily attacked by mosquitoes is, generally
speaking, not affected by malaria.”11

He quotes Dr. M. E. Barnes as asserting that “ so far
as anopheline mosquitoes are concerned, there is no
reason why Bangkok should not have malaria cases in
abundance. ’ ’ 12

No deﬁnite explanation of this anomaly is offered in
the Survey, but it is mentioned incidentally that Bang-
kok is supplied with an excellent water supply and with
drinking fountains for the people. In another place in
the same report we are told that one of the reasons for
the prevalence of malaria in northern Siam is “ the low
economic state of the population in contrast to the wealth
and prosperity of central Siam.”13

In another province, contrasting two groups, one of
which was highly malarious and the other only slightly
so, Dr. Anigstein states that “ it was established that the
second group belonged chieﬂy to the mercantile wealthy
class, while the parents of the ﬁrst were poor farmers.”14

' The conclusion reached was that “ the high incidence
of malaria was usually coincident with poverty ”; also
that “ the problem of malaria cannot be considered
apart from the economic life of the population.”15

The Japanese Epidemic
It is of particular interest to note that, according to

 

 




 

 

17'

the report in the Lancet, March 23rd, 1935, in the
recent epidemic of malaria in Ceylon, which resulted in
38,000 deaths:

“ The same drought which precipitated the epidemic caused
a widespread failure of the rice crop, and the destitution and
the epidemic formed a vicious circle.” (p. 693)

It is evident that here also the economic conditions
of the population provided important factors in the
incidence of malaria. Dr. Wigglesworth, from whose
lecture at the London School of Tropical Medicine the
above is quoted, added some signiﬁcant facts which
strongly support the contentions of those who hold the
“ subsoil ” theory of causation. He stated :—

“ There are about 20 species of anopheline mosquito (in
Ceylon). By all the rules of malariology, the foothill zone
oughb‘ to suffer from the most intense malaria . . . . This,
however, does not appear to be so . . . . The most malarious
part of the island is the dry zone, jungle country where the
uncertain rains are stored in embanked lakes, and the rivers
and streams dry up during the dry season . . . . ”

“ There is an increased incidence of malaria every year
about a month after the onset of rain.” (loc. cit.)

Results of Anti-Mosquito Campaign

The results of anti-malarial measures taken in Turkey
since 1926, which appear to have'been conﬁned chieﬂy
to drainage operations and attacks upon the mosquito,
have been tabulated by Dr. Hiisamettin in terms of
enlargement of the spleen and the presence of parasites
in the blood, found on examination of large numbers of
the community between 1929 and 1932.

These remarkable ﬁgures were published by the League
of Nations Health Organisation in 1934.,16 and show that
in eight out of ten areas an increase in the percentage
spleen—rate was found, and that in six out of ten areas
an increase in the percentage parasite—rate had occurred.
Taking the total ﬁgures at all ages, the spleen-rate rose
from 13.4 to 19.5 per cent., while the parasite—rate rose
from 10.2 to 14.4 per cent. between the years 1929
and 1932.

 

 




 

 

18

A Final Warning

In conclusion, it is necessary to refer to several sources
of statistical error which have invalidated the mortality
ﬁgures of malaria in all parts of the world, and render
it almost impossible to interpret them with any degree
of accuracy.

The 1927 Report of the Commission calls special
attention to them ;17 we are reminded that formerly the
term “ malaria " was applied to kala-azar, in India,
while throughout Europe before 1900 it also included
“ remittent fever,” and frequently both enteric and
typhus fevers. .

The term “ ague ” on the other hand, which is now
a. common equivalent for malaria, did not mean malaria,
but any acute fever. In Ireland it was applied to in-
digenous typhus.

Even infantile paralysis, diarrhoea, dysentery and
cholera, among other diseases, we are informed, were
classed as “ malarial diseases ”; so that, as the Com-
mission points out:

“ We are obliged to conclude that the abruptly falling
curve of our diagrams represents almost entirely not a
curve of diminishing mortality from true malaria but a
curve indicating the general and rapid advance of know-
ledge and practice in the art of clinical diagnosis.”

As regards statistics of malaria mortality in general,
therefore, it is difﬁcult to demur from the opinion of the
Commission that they “ do not provide a good method
of ascertaining the distribution and character of malaria
and that the results of their use as an indicator of success
in antimalarial measures may be very misleading.”17

With these facts before us it will surely be possible
to arrive at a wider fr. 'ferpretation of much of the evidence
which hitherto lg: resulted in our regarding malaria as
simply and sole By the effect of an infection with a micro-
scopic parasite by a mosquito-bite; and perhaps also to
reach a deeper understanding of those complex and
diverse factors—economic, social, ., dietetic and moral-—
which in their totality underlie the. problems of malarial
disease, endemic or epidemic.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

19

References

1 The Medical World, July 6th, 1934 : “The Basic Principles
of Health and Disease.”

2 The Nature of Disease, Vols. I, II, III (Heinemann Ltd.,
London, 1924), and The Nature of Disease journal.

3 An Introduction to the Principles and Practice of Homoeo-
pathy; Charles E. Wheeler, M.D., B.S., B.Sc., p. 138.

4 The Lancet, Feb. 28th, 1920, p. 518.
5 Quoted in the Medical World, Feb. 13th, 1931, p. 664.
6 Quoted from Public Health, January, 1935, p. 122.

7 Quoted in Second General Report of Malaria Commission,
1927, p. 86. Laveran, Traité du paludisme, 1907, pp. 36
and 37. -

8 Second General Report of Malaria Commission, 1927, p. 12.
9 The Listener, April 19th, 1933, p. 637.
10 Second General Report of Malaria Commission, 1927, p. 27.

11 Quarterly Bulletin of the Health Organisation of the League
of Nations, Vol. I, No. 2, June, 1932, p. 235.

12 Ibid., p. 263.
13 Ibid., p. 266.
14 Ibid., p. 274.
15 Mid, p. 293.

16 Quarterly Bulletin of the Health Organisation, League of
Nations, Vol. III, No. 1, March, 1934, p. 129.

17 General Report of Malaria Commission, 1927, p. 52

 




 

WM. H. TAYLOR a: EONS. LTD.. PRINTERS. 172, YORK ROAD, KING'S CROSS. N.1

 




