 

LORD CHIEF JUSTICE
OFENGLAND

VIVISECTION.

 

 

' ﬁirtnrizt ﬁtmqt ﬁnqiqtg
FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION,
United with the

ﬁxttqmmtimml gssnriation

FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION OF VIVISECTION.

Oﬁce .3—1, VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S. W

 

 




 

‘ll‘h’iill‘lf‘l‘lll’llllli‘l‘ll ‘h ’ «flaking i. bin-3'; 6.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

4- ..u-«A- '“ "m ‘3“;

 

 

 

THE

LORD CHIEF JUSTICE
OF ENGLAND

ON

VIVISECTION.

 

ﬁintnria ﬁtmgt $013th
FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION,
United with the

Etttqnnatioual ﬁssntiatinn

FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION OF VIVISECTION.

Oﬁcc:——1, VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, SJV

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE NINETEENTH CENTURY DEEENDERS
OF VIVISEOTION.

IN the papers of Sir James Paget, Mr. Owen, and Dr. Wilks,
on the subject of Vivisection, published in the Mneteent/z Century
{or December, 1881, more than one reference is made to a Judge
or Judges. N 0 other Judge has spoken upon the subject, as far
as I am aware; so that when a “ Judge ” or “law officer ” is
mentioned by three gentlemen amongst those opponents worthy
at once of the contempt and anger which they express, or very
imperfectly conceal, towards them, I cannot help applying some
of the censure to myself. I wish I could; partly because so to
apply it may look like vanity, as if in this regard‘ I thought
myself worthy of the notice of such great people; but much
more because the statements as to anything I have ever said or.
written are so entirely inaccurate, that I must conclude (want of
apprehension in such distinguished men being out of the ques-
tion), either that they have not read what they profess to notice,
or that they feel conﬁdent no one will read any reply.

I recognise, as much as any man can recognise it, the duty of
a Judge being in court and out of 1t a man egregiz' altz'que silenti.
But there are, occasions on which it is a duty to speak, and I
think this is one. Sir James Paget says that, “ The only com—
petentjudges in such a case are those in whom sentiment and
intellectual power are fairly balanced, and who will dispassion-
ately Study the facts and compare the pain—giving and the utility
of experiments on animals with those of any generally allowed
or encouraged pursuit.” Sir James Paget would deny, and I do
not pretend to assert, that I am a “ competent judge”; but I
desire to state shortly and temperately, if I can, the reasons
which lead me earnestly to support the Bill which Mr. Reid is
about to submit to the House of Commons.

I should personally prefer in the abstract Regulation to Prohi‘
bition. I think it difﬁcult to answer particular cases in which,
Without any unfair manipulation of circumstances, it may be

A 2

 




 

 

 

 

4 THE NINETEENTH CENTURY

shown, that total prohibition might or would stand in the way
of justice, or even of humanity. But a practical matter cannot
be thus dealt with. In the affairs of men it is hardly possible to
lay down a general rule which will not produce hard cases.
Probably no law was ever abolished which had not in its time
done some good, for which, in particular instances, some defence
could not be made. Probably no new law was ever enacted to
which some exception could not be justly taken, and which did
not in particular instances do some harm. Objections, as Dr.
Arnold once said, do not bring us to the point; and nothing
would ever be done if we waited till we had satisﬁed every
possible objection to the doing of what we propose. In all
human action we have to choose and balance between opposing
good and evil ; and in any change of law to determine whether
that which we propose, or that which exists, is upon the whole
the best. On this principle I do not hesitate to support the
absolute prohibition of what for shortness' sake, though with
some verbal inaccuracy, I shall call, as others call it, vivisection.

The supporters of vivisection in this country‘are not them—
selves content with the present state of things. As far as I know
the repulsive literature of the subject, no defender of the prac-
tice, excep’if Sir James Paget (and perhaps I misunderstand even
his last sentence), has said or implied that he is satisfied with the
present law. The repeal of it is to be at once attempted; and
it is contended that even those (to my mind reasonable) restraints
which it imposes so injuriously hamper the practice of vivisec-
tion, that little or no good can result from it, if these restraints
are continued. But it seems to follow that if the present law is
admitted to be as bad for vivisectors as total abolition, and if the
present law is reasonable, they, at least, can have no strong
motive for resisting an enactment in form of that which they say
exists already in substance.

Is, then, the present law reasonable? It is the result of a
most careful inquiry conducted by eminent men in 1875, men
certainly neither weak sentimentalists nor ignorant and pre-
judiced humanitarians, men amongst whom are to be found Mr.
Huxley and Mr. Erichsen, Mr. Hutton and Sir John Karslake.
These men unanimously recommended legislation, and legisla:
tion, in some important respects, more stringent than Parliament
thought fit to pass. They recommended it on a body of evidence
at once interesting and terrible. Interesting indeed it is from
the frank apathy to the sufferings of animals, however awful,
avowed by some of the witnesses; for the noble humanity of
some few; for the curious ingenuity with which others avoided

 




 

DEFENDERS on vrvrsncrrorv. 5

the direct and verbal approval of horrible cruelties which yet
they refused to condemn; and in some cases for the stern judg-
ment passed upon men and practices, apparently now, after the
lapse of six years, considered worthy of more lenient language.
Terrible the evidence is for the details of torture, of mutila-
tion, of life slowly destroyed in torment, or skilfully preserved
for the inﬂiction of the same or diversiﬁed agonies, for days,
for weeks, for months, in some cases for more than a year.
I want not to be, if I can help it, what Mr. Simon calls a
“ mere screamer”; nay, if possible, to avoid that et more fatal
imputation upon an Englishman which Dr. IIll/Elks brings
against his opponents, that we “lack a sense of the ludicrous.”
I wish to use quiet language, but I must, nevertheless, at all
hazards own that, sharing probably the lower and less sensitive
organizations of the monkey, the cat, and the dog, I fail alto-
gether to see the joke which he sees, in any attempt to stay these
tortures; and further that to read of them, not in the language of
“paid scribes and hired agitators,” but in the language of these
humane and tender men who ﬁrst inflict them and then describe
them, makes me sick. True that the most exquisite and most
prolonged tortures appear to have been inflicted out of England;
true that, both before the Commission and since the Report, the
broadest avowals of entire indifference to animal agony have
come from foreign countries, or from foreigners in this. But
our inferiority in this respect, the as yet unreasonable dislike of
our medical classes to witnessing very painful experiments, are
made the subject of earnest and repeated regret. It is hoped
that we may be brought up to the foreign standard; that our
insular prejudice may be purged away by degrees, and that in
time we may feel the beauty and enter into the nobility of
M. de Cyon’s description of “ the true vivisector.” “ He,” says
M. de Cyon, “ must approach a difﬁcult vivisection with the
same joyful excitement, with the same delight, as the surgeon
when he approaches a difﬁcult operation from which he antici-
pates extraordinary consequences. He who shrinks from the
section of a living animal, he who approaches a vivisection as
an unpleasant necessity, may perhaps be able to repeat one or
two particular vivisections, but will never become an artist in
vivisection.” Principiis obsta. I do not desire this result for
my fellow-islanders. I think both that the Report of the Com-
mission was at the time and has been since abundantly justiﬁed,
and that the legislation founded on it did not go beyond very
reasonable limits.

But that there exists a statute conﬁning vivisection within

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 THE NINETEENTH CENTURY

reasonable limits, with which some peOple are ,dissatisﬁed, is not,
it may be said, any ground for going beyond those limits, and
prohibiting the practice altogether. By itself it is not. But the
claims of the vivisectors have meanwhile become so large, the
tone they take is so peremptory, the principles on which they
base themselves are so alarming and (I think) so immoral, that I
have become reluctantly convinced it is only by the strongest
law, by absolutely forbidding the practice itself, that the grave
mischief which follows from holding parley with these claims
can be stayed or destroyed. Before the Commission, except by
a witness or two of exceptional frankness or indiscretion, an
apologetic tone was adopted, the duty of avoiding pain if
possible was unreservedly, at least in words, admitted, of at least
minimising suﬂerilig, of never inﬂicting it except in pursuit of
some reasonably probable discovery, of not torturing animals
simply to show manual skill, or to illustrate acknowledged and
ascertained truths. All this sort of thing has somehow dis-
appeared. I am not conscious of any distorting inﬂuence on my
judgment ; I have no anti-scientiﬁc bias ; I read as far as I can
a good deal on both sides with a desire, I think sincere, to arrive
at a sound conclusion, and I deliberately say that it seems to me
no man can read the Blue Book of 1875 and these papers of Sir
James Paget, Mr. Owen, and Dr. VVilks of 1881, without being
conscious that, somehow or other, the whole atmosphere has
changed. For example, Magendie and his experiments are
denounced before-the Commission in language such as Robert
Southey might have used, and. did use respecting them. Dr.
VVilks’s “ world-famous Darwin ” applies to experiments such as
his what the Commission rightly call the “ emphatic terms”
“detestatz'on and abhorrence.” Now in 1881 Sir James Paget
speaks of them without a syllable of disapprobation, nay, I must
say, it seems to me, in a tone of absolute apology. What more
cogent can be said? If here or elsewhere I seem to use
language of blame or disrespect towards such a man as he is, a
man whom in common with all the world I respect and admire
with all my heart, it is only because in a grave matter I
cannot help, after much reﬂection, being convinced that he is
wrong. I admit the weight of his character; I recognise the
moral force he brings to any side which he supports; and if I
ﬁnd thatsuch a man as he cannot advocate his cause without
what seems unfair reasoning, and an apparent disregard of or
apology for hateful cruelty, it is the strongest possible argument
to my mind that the cause itself should be done away with ; for
if even Sir James Paget cannot escape its evil inﬂuences, what

 

 

 

 




 

 

DEFENDE RS OF VIVISECTION. 7

will they not effect on the common run of men who have
neither his head nor his heart to keep them right? I say then, that
the complete change of tone in the vivisectors, the open scoffing
at laws of mercy which not so long ago were honoured, at least
in words, the broad claim that in pursuit of knowledge . any
cruelty may be inﬂicted on animals; these things not only startle
me and shook my moral sense, but they convince me that a practice
which, according to the contention of its best and ablest advo-
cates, involves these claims, is one which it is no longer safe to
tolerate.

I do not say that Vivisection is useless, and I am sure I never
have said so. I do not know enough of the history of science
to venture on any such statement. Dr. Wilks indeed asserts
that he has looked in vain “for any speech delivered” (inter
altos) “ by a judge who has not made inutility the staple of his
argument;” but he is absolutely inaccurate, and I contradict
him as ﬂatly as is consistent with courtesy. I should think it as
foolish and presumptuous in me to say so, as it is presumptuous
(I had almost said foolish) in the gentleman whom Dr. Wilks
calls “ the venerable Owen,” to say of “one of our highest law
ofﬁcers” (meaning, I imagine, me) “that he purposely” (the
word is the venerable gentleman’s) “ obstructs the best mode of
admitting the light which the law looks for in cases of suspected
poisoning.” Mr. Owen is an old man, but I am no longer
young; and I take leave to say that no age is venerable if a
man has not learned to abstain from unmannerly imputations of
motive, and from indulgence in mere scoldingand abuse of oppo-
nents of whom (I do not speak of myself) he can know nothing
but what is to their credit, and who at least at no time of their
lives have ever been accused of endeavouring to crush a scientiﬁc
adversary by means at once ungenerous and unfair. T 6313a servant
odorem; but this is by the way. What I have said and do say
is thatvery considerable men are not agreed as to the great utility
of vivisection, or as to the value of the results which have fol—
lowed from it. There are two sides to the question; which is
the right one I do not pretend to say; but there are men of name,
and statements which at least look authentic, upon both. There
are certain stock cases, some of them very old, which reappear
on every discussion; I have heard so often and so much of Mr.
Spencer Wells’s rabbits, that I will own to a suspicion that if the
baked dogs, and mutilated cats, and gouged frogs, and nail-larded
guinea~pigs, and brain-extracted monkeys, had resulted in any-
thing worth hearing of, I should have heard of that too. But I
do not say, and have never said, that vivis‘ection is useless,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE NINETEENTH CENTURY

C!)

I must, however, be permitted to say how loose and vague are
the notions of evidence which, as far as I know them, pervade
the writings of men of science on this question. Sir James
Paget once in my hearing, in the course of a very striking speech,
not only with perfect candour admitted, but insisted on this
defect. He said (and I think truly said) that men of science
often (not, of course, always) arrive at conclusions on evidence
which a lawyer would hardly admit to be evidence at all in a
question of disputed fact. No fair man I think can fail to be
struck with the uncertainty, a different point from inutility, of
the conclusions to which vivisection has conducted those who
practise it. The conclusions are doubted, are disputed, are con-
tradicted by the vivisectors themselves. So that it really is not
experiment to verify or disprove theory, which one well-conducted
and crucial experiment might do, but experiment in vacuo, ex-
periment on the chance, experiment in pursuit of nothing in
particular, but of anything which may turn up in the course of a
hundred thousand vivisections, and during the course of a life
devoted to them. This is the experiment for which liberty is
claimed, and the unfettered pursuit of which we are called very
hard names for objecting to. “ Pseudo humanitarians,” “ill-
informed fanatics,” “ true pharisaical spirit,” these are but speci-
mens of the languagewwhich the calm and serene men of science
ﬁnd it convenient to apply to their opponents. We may be
wrong; but at least let our position be distinctly understood,
and let the mode in which we are opposed be distinctly appre-
ciated.

. I deny altogether that it concludes the question to admit that
V1V1section enlarges knowledge. I do not doubt it does; but I
deny that the pursuit of knowledge-is in itself always lawful:
still more do I deny that the gaining knowledge justiﬁes all
means of gaining it. To begin with, proportion is forgotten.
Suppose it capable of proof that by putting to death with hideous
torment 3,000 horses you could ﬁnd out the real nature of some
feverish symptom, I should say without the least hesitation that
it would be unlawful to torture the 3,000 horses. There is no
proportion between the end and the means. Next, the moment
you touch man, it is admitted that the formula breaks down ; no
one doubts that to cut up a hundred men and women would
enlarge the bounds of knowledge as to the human frame more
speedily and far more widely than to torture a thousand dogs or
ten thousand cats. It is obvious; but it was admitted over and
over again that experiments on animals were suggestive only,
not conclusive, as to the human subject. Especially is this the

.459: n

/_/

/




DEFENDERS OF VIVISECTION. 9

case with poisons; some of the deadliest of which do not appre-
ciably affect some animals, and as to all of which it is admitted
that it is not safe to argue from their effects on animals to their
effects on man. As to man himself, it was not so long ago that
medical men met with a passion of disavowal, what they regarded
as an imputation, viz. the suggestion that experiments were tried
on patients in hospitals. I assume the disavowal to be true; but
why, if all pursuit of knowledge is lawful, should the imputation
be resented? The moment you come to distinguish between
animals and man, you consent to limit the pursuit of knowledge
by considerations not scientiﬁc but moral; and it is bad logic
and a mere petitio principii to assume (which is the very point
at issue) that these considerations avail for man but do not for
animals. I hope that morals may always be too much for logic;
it is permissible to express a fear that some day logic may be too
much for morals. '

An interesting illustration of this remark has just been given.
Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, the senior surgeon to the London
Hospital, has recently been reported in the British Medical
Journal as avowing to his pupils that in fact a patient “in a
miserable condition” had (1) not been cured, by a Dr. Tom
Robinson, who had him under treatment and might easily have
cured him, in order that the students at the hospital might be
witnesses of the case; and (2) had been kept in the hospital “ for
a few days before using the magician’s wand, in order that all
might see that there was no natural tendency to amelioration.”
If this had been correct, it would certainly have been a curious
and convincing proof of the reasonableness of the fear I have
expressed that logic might now and then prove too much for
morals; for if this is not experimenting upon a human subject,
and putting him to needless suffering, in order to demonstrate an
already known fact, I do not know what is. But Mr. Hutchin-
son says he has been, like Dr. Klein, misunderstood and mis-
reported. There is no more to be said; but if it is to be hoped
that the practices of scientiﬁc men may not be so far misconstrued
by their pupils who see them, it seems their language is mis-
understood by those who hear it and report it.

It comes to this, that the necessity for vivisection, in order to
attain the ends proposed, is not admitted by many persons of
knowledge and authority; that its practical utility in alleviating
human suffering, though not denied, is on the same authority
said to be much exaggerated by those who practise or defend it;
that even if it be admitted to be a means of gaining scientific
knowledge, such knowledge is unlawful knowledge if it is pur-

 




 

10 THE NINETEENTH CENTURY

sued by means which are immoral; and that a disregard of all
proportion between means and ends often makes both alike
unlawful and indefensible. Meanwhile, if we turn to the other
side, the positive evil engendered by the practice appears to me
to be frightful. I do not speak only of the sufferings of the tor-
tured brutes; to dwell on these might be called “screaming,”
and I have said that the amount and intensity of these, as
described by the vivisectors themselves, is absolutely sickening.
In this world of pain and sorrow surely the highest of God’s
creatures should not wilfully increase a sum which seems too
great already. I seem to hear those voices and that wail which
the verse of Virgil, at once tender and majestic, has ascribed to
infants, but which may come also from creatures hardly inferior
to infants in intelligence, and not at all inferior to them in their
capacity to suffer :—

“ Continue auditae voces, vagitus et ingens,
Infantumque animee ﬂentes in limine primo,
Quos dulcis vitae exsortes, ct ab ubere raptos,
Abstulit atra dies et funere mcrsit acerbo.”

Far worse I think in result are the practice and the principles
on which it is defended upon the defenders and advocates of
both. I should have expected this 81 priori. Where the infliction
of pain is the special object of the experiment, where the power
to endure it is the thing to be measured; nay, where the sensi-
tivencss to pain and the liability to mortal or non-mortal injury
of this or that organ, or set of organs, or nerves, or muscles is
the matter of investigation, I should expect to find that a man
who was an habitual vivisector, “ an artist in vivisection,” as
M. de Cyon calls him, was one by nature callous to the sufferings
of animals, or who in the course of these experiments had become
so. Surely experience shows the justice of the expectation.
Who, not a vivisector, can read without a shudder these papers
in the Nineteenth Geniusn , and Mr. Simon’s address to the
Medical Congress in 1881, a shudder at the utter and absolute
indifference displayed to the terrible and widespread suffering
which the practice the writers are defending entails upon helpless
and harmless creatures? Yet who are these writers? Chosen
men; bright examples (we are told) of the scientiﬁc class, persons
whose names alone are to be arguments in their favour. If these
men write thus, and it is incredible that merely as men of
common sense they should affect an indifference they do not feel,
what will be the temper of mind of the ordinary coarse, rough
man, the common human being, neither better nor worse than

\U U i

 




 

DEFENDERS'OF VIVISECTION. 11

his neighbours, of whom the bulk of the medical profession, like
the bulk of every other profession, is made up ? What is the
effect of the familiarity with cruelty in other cases? What was
it in the Slave States ? What was it in the days of slavery and
gladiators in Rome ? What was it in England a hundred years
ago ? What is it now in places and amongst persons where and
amongst whom cruelty and brutality is not the exception but the
rule ? Natural laws are not suspended in the case of vivisectors;
and I will mention an instance within my own experience which
I am sure cannot offend, because I am certain the person cannot
be known. Some time since I met in society a very eminent
man, a man of very high character, and for whom, in common
with most men, I have a very great respect. He is certainly not
an habitual vivisector, but I believe he has occasionally vivi-
sected. I left his company shocked and disturbed to a degree
difﬁcult to express, not from any particular thing he said, or any
particular experiment he described, for he said little on the sub-
ject, and I think described nothing; but from the assumption
that underlay his conversation, that we had no duties to the
lower creatures when science was in question, and that the
animal world was to a man of science like clay to the potter or
marble to thesculptor, to be crushed or carved at his will with no
more reference to pain in animals than if they were clay or marble.
Yet this was a most gifted man, a man but for the taint of vivi-
section every way admirable, but a man whom that taint had
made (I feel sure in his case, owing to the blessed inconsistency
of humanity, to the animal world only) cruel and heartless.

This is a question not to be decided by an array of names. I
know that great men are not all on one side about it. But we
have great men, and those surely not weak or efleminate, on ours.

In the single volume written by Sir Arthur Helps, entitled

Animals and their Masters, there will be found a collection of
authorities on this point, as well as others cognate to it, which
may well bring to a pause these gentlemen, venerable and other-
wise, who are so smart upon us with their sneers and sarcasms.
I will not quote Montaigne, though a man less sentimental never
lived; for he is old, and may be said to write only in the
general. But what is to be said of Jeremy Bentham? “ The
question is,” says he, “ not, can they reason, or can, they speak,
but can they suffer ?” What of Voltaire, who has passage after
passage of trenchant scorn for the vivisectors of the faithful dog?
What of Sir Arthur Helps himself, who “has a perfect horror of
vivisection; the very word makes his ﬂesh creep”? But why

 




 

 

 

12 THE NINETEENTH CENTURY

multiply examples? It is not true that fools and women and
children are on one side, and wise men on the other. It is not
true that we are Pharisees, or fanatics and Shams. We know
what we are about, and we think that Parliament will be moved,
if it is moved at all, not by calling names, but by facts and
arguments.

Now what besides this somewhat ostentatious contempt is the
argument of these gentlemen? So far as it depends upon their
frequent assertions of the practical value of vivisection, I have
said already that I will not dispute with them as to the fact. A
lawyer ought at any rate to know the folly of encountering an
expert without the knowledge necessary for success in the conﬂict.
I deny the practical conclusion sought to be drawn from it upon
grounds of another sort which appear to me to be of over-
whelming force, but which I will not repeat. There is, then,
another line of argument which I am positively mortified to

i have to notice; it seems to me alike unworthy of the subject and

of the men who use it. In substance it is this: it is hypocrisy,
it is inconsistency, it is folly to attack vivisection, which, if it be
cruel, is not more cruel than some, is not so cruel as many, sports
or practices which all men follow, which you yourselves, the
anti—vivisectors, either do not dare attack, or do not condemn.
Then there is the inevitable Hudibras about “ sins we have no
mind to ”; the equally inevitable Sydney Smith (distorted as
inevitably from. the context which made it sense), that all pro-
hibitory acts contain principles of persecution ; and so, because
nature is cruel, because men are cruel, because there are hypo-
crites in the world, because the principle of prohibition may in
some cases contain the principle of persecution—what then?
Why something which, consistently with all this argument, may
be horribly cruel and utterly useless is to be let alone. As
argument, nothing can be feebler ; but are these statements fair?
I think certainly not. It is true that there is much cruelty in
the world as to which some men are careless, but a great many
more are ignorant, and which, if they knew more or thought
more, they would not permit. I do not believe that the gentle
ladies and reﬁned gentlemen who subject their horses to cruel
pain, day by day or year by year, by means of gag-bits and
bearing-reins, have ever seriously thought, or perhaps really
know, what they are doing. They have not read Sir Francis
Head, or Sir Arthur Helps, or Mr. Flower; they have not
thought about it; they are in bondage to their coachmen. A
man, a woman, who deliberately tortures a noble animal as we

 

 




DEFENDERS or vrvrsnc'rron. 13

see hundreds, perhaps thousands, carelessly and ignorantly tor-
tured day by day in London, is, I freely admit, open to the
taunts of Mr. Owen and Dr. Wilks.

' So again I should suppose that the vast majority of persons
who have white veal brought into their houses have never seen,
as I have seen, a calf still living hung up in a butcher’s shop.
If they had, and if they knew the process by which veal is made
white, I think better of my countrymen than to believe that they
would bear to see it at their tables. Most men do not reﬂect;
nay, most men do not know these things. If they do, and the
knowledge makes no difference in their practice, I leave them to
the tender mercies of the gentlemen of the Nineteenth Century.

As to the mutilation of horses and bulls, I do not know how
they manage in other countries, but I am quite sure that in this
it is, if these animals are to be kept in numbers at all, a matter
of sheer necessity. If cruelty which can be prevented is used, it
is wrong; and I at least do not defend it. Nor am I prepared
to say that there is not much in our ordinary habits towards
these and other animals which needs amending. But I think
that Mr. Owen must be hard driven indeed if he can sincerely
speak of mutilations “ to enhance the charms of vocal music
especially of the sacred kind,” as things which his adversaries
are interested, or are in consequence bound to defend. I never
heard of such a practice obtaining at any time in this country;
and I imagine that his venerable age has led him for the moment
to forget how long it is since it was tolerated even in the
dominions of the Pope. Surely a man must be at his wits’ end
before he could gravely put forward such an argument as this in
defence of a claim to vivisect by wholesale. If he is joking, I
am sorry to say the humour has escaped me.

But sport? Well I am not ashamed. to say that there are
some sports which appear to me so cruel and so unmanly that I
wonder very much how any one can ﬁnd pleasure in them. Al-
though in youth devoted to some kinds of manly exercise which
inﬂicted pain only on myself, and not quite unskilled in them, I
own that at no time has the slaughter of pigeons out of cages, or
of half-tame pheasants driven in thousands by beaters across the
muzzles of guns, or some other forms of fashionable amusement
in which the whole point is the wholesale destruction of terriﬁed
and unresisting creatures, ever appeared to me to be very dis~
tinguishable from duck-hunting, or cat-baiting, or the slaughter
of cocks and hens in a poultry-yard. A fox, an otter, a stag (a
wild one), die game; there is skill, there is courage, sometimes
there, is even danger at the end or in the course of the hunt

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

lei THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

which explain the enthusiasm of those devoted to it; and which
make even one not devoted. to it doubt whether Dr. Johnson
was quite as wise as usual in saying “ that it was only the paucity
of human pleasures which persuaded us ever to call hunting one
of them.” But a hare! Certainly if to hunt down with hounds
and horses one poor timid trembling creature be manly, I am
content on this matter to be unmanly all my life.

I do not defend everything that is done in sport. One I knew,
a brave and high-spirited man, a keen and successful sportsman,
gave it up in the prime of life because he could not face the
cruelty. Another, almost the manliest man I ever came across,
one of the best shots and ﬁnest riders in England, with whom I
had many talks on these matters, did not give it up, for it had
become a second nature to him, but laid down and enforced a set
of rules for his shooting parties which, as he said, at least “ reduced
pain to a minimum.” These men may have been exceptions, but,
depend on it, they were not alone. Yet I do not doubt that
there is pain in sport; I do not question there is cruelty; if ever
the general sentiment of mankind awakes to it I believe that
either the cruelty will be indefinitely lessened, as it might be, or
the sport itself put down, as bull-baiting has been in England, and
tried in vain in France, in spite of the patronage of an Empress.
I should think, however, that Sir James Paget greatly overstates
the pains of animals like the otters, which die ﬁghting in hot
blood. Moreover, at the worst as a rule they die quickly, and
they and their pains end together. T he slow torture, the
exquisite agony, the suffering inﬂicted with scientiﬁc accuracy
up to the point at which the frame can bear it without death,
these things are unknown to sport. At least and at lowest
sportsmen do not intend them.

These are the deductions which I think a fair man would make
from Sir James Paget’s or Mr. Owen’s facts. But grant them
all and what do they come to as an argument? I have already
peremptorily denied that we defend or are indifferent to cruelty
anywhere; and are we not to try to prevent one sort of cruelty
which we can reach because there is much that we cannot?
One can hardly suppose these gentlemen are in earnest. We
are not to forbid larceny because there are many forms of
dishonesty which the law cannot restrain; nor injury to life
or limb from bodily violence because existence can be made
miserable and life shortened by taunting, by temper, by a
thousand means known to ingenious malignity and familiar
to us all, which yet evade the law; not to punish rape
because seduction, which may be more wicked, is dispunish~

 

 




 

 

 

DEFENDERS or vrvrsncrros'. 14')

able ; not certain frauds and cheats, because a multitude of
other frauds and cheats escape us. I waste time over such argu-
ment. Of two things, one—vivisection is right, and then there
is an end of tlie matter; or it is wrong. If it is wrong and can
be prevented, it is none the less wrong, and ought none the less
to be prevented, because other things are also wrong, but cannot
be prevented, or cannot be prevented now. One thing at a time.

There is a sort of argument or mode of inﬂuence employed
persistently on this question on which it is ﬁt that I should. say a
word. The writers with whom I have been dealing, not content
with the contumely they pour upon our “mature ignorance,”
“crude sentiments,” and “pretences,” are never tired of cele-
brating the moral and intellectual virtues of the men who agree
with them. One man is “ venerable,” another “ world-famous,”
two more “ most illustrious,” and so forth. “ The air broke into
a mist with bells,” says Mr. Browning; and it is well if the walls
of our city do not tumble down and our own senses forsake us,
with the blare of the trumpets which announce the arrival of
each foe upon the ﬁeld. But, besides being surely a triﬂe weak,
this trumpeting is nothing to the purpose. 'Why should a
venerable osteologist, a world~famed naturalist, or a couple of
most illustrious physicians, be any better judges than a man of
average intellect, average education, and average fairness, when
the question is what is the limit (it being I think certain that
there is one) between lawful and unlawful knowledge, and lawful
and unlawful means of gaining it; and what is the moral effect
necessarily or probably, according to the common facts of human
nature, of a certain course of practice? When the Factory Acts
and the Mining Acts were passed, Parliament did not question
the doctrines of the venerable Adam Smith, or the world-famous
Mill, or the most illustrious Ricardo, but it decided that, notwith—
standing their doctrines, certain morally mischievous things,
which could be prevented, shOuld be.

I own I am not much moved by this appeal to authority. I
remember the time when it was diﬁicult even among cultivated
men to get a hearing for the North, in the American civil war;
and when the sympathies of society went with slavery. As far
as I know the Church of England never raised a ﬁnger, and very
few of its bishops ever raised a voice, to put down our own slave
trade, or set free our own slaves. Sir Arthur Helps tells us, in
the book already mentioned, that he never heard a single sermon,
out of many hundreds he had attended, in which the duty ofkind-
ness to dumb animals had ever been alluded to. Yet amongst
these preachers, or amongst the maintainers of slavery and the

 




 

 

 

 

16 NINETEENTH CENTURY DEFENDERS on VIVISECTION.

slave trade, were to be found, I doubt not, many who were
venerable, some illustrious, a few world-famous.

Further, I have heard that the great Roman Communion
holds that we have no duties to the animal creation; that it has
been given to us in absolute subjection; that it is a Pagan view
to hold otherwise; and that some clergymen sometimes deli-
berately bully animals before their pupils to show their despotic
authority over them. I do not assert this; the name and known
opinions of Cardinal Manning seem to show that at least it has
never been so decided; but I have heard it on respectable
evidence. If it be so, we must, with due responsibility,'think
and aCt for ourselves without authority, or, if need be, against it.
But there is one authority, conclusive, no doubt, only to those
who admit it, conclusive only to those who believe that they
can read it, to which in conclusion I dare appeal. When a
bishop in the Southern States had been defending slavery, he
was asked what he thought our Lord would have said, what
looks He who turned and looked upon St. Peter would have cast
upon a slave-mart in New Orleans, where husband was torn from
wife, child from parent, and beautiful girls, with scarce a tinge
of colour in them, were sold into prostitution. The answer of
the bishop is not known, but I will venture on a kindred ques-
tion. What would our Lord have said, what looks would He
have bent, upon a chamber ﬁlled with “the unoﬂhnding creatures
which he loves,” dying under torture deliberately and inten-
tionally inﬂicted, or kept alive to endure further torment, in
pursuit of knowledge ? Men must answer this question accord-
ing to their consciences; and for any man to make himself in
such a matter a rule for any other would be, I know, unspeakable
presumption. But to any one who recognises the authority of
our Lord, and who persuades himself that he sees which way
that authority inclines, the mind of Christ must be the guide of
life. “ Shouldest thou not have had compassion upon these,
even as I had pity on thee?” So he seems to me to say, and I
shall act accordingly.

COLERIDGE.

 




 

 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY
UNITED WITH THE

INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION.

 

Booxs.

Physiological Fallacies. 1 vol. 8vo.
The Vivisection Controversy.

PAMPHLETS.

List of Ofﬁcers of the Society.
List of Physicians and Surgeons friendly
to the Movement.
Eighth Annual Report.
Speech of the Bishop of Oxford, May,
1883.
Transactions I. and II.
Memorial to Right Hon. W. E. Glad-
stone.
Dates of Principal Events connected
with the A. V. agitation.
Speech of the‘Earl of Shaftesbury in the
House of Lords.
The Lord Chief Justice on Vivisection
( Article in Fortnightly Rome/m)
N o Pity (Sermon), by Rev. David
Wright.
Vivisection (Sermon), by Rev. H. L.
Bernard.
Higher Expediency, by Miss Cobbe.
Moral Aspects. Ib'id.
Janus of Science. Ibid.
Right of Tormenting, Ibid.
Mr. Lowe and the Vi visection Act. lbid.
Have Pity (Leaﬂet). Ibid.
Address at Clifton. Ibid.
Address at Southampton. Ib’id.
Address at Stoke Bishop. I bid.
Reply to Sir James Paget. Ibid.
Tender Vivisection. Jbz'ol.
Science in Excelsis. Zbid.
Extracts from Minutes of Royal Com-
mission. 11nd.
Comments on the Debate of April 4.
I bid.
Light in Dark Places, with 20 Illustra-
tions. I bid.
Four Reasons for Supporting the Bill
for the Total Abolition of Vivisection.
I bid.
Letter to Morning Post, by Dr. Hoggan.
Anaesthetics and Curare.
Public Instruction (M. Paul Bert’s Ex-
periments).
The Scientist at the Bedside, by Mrs.
Hoggan, MD.
The Uselessness of Vivisection,by Law-
son Tait, Esq., F.R.C.S. (New edition
with Notes.)

Dr. Bell Taylor on Viviseotion.

The Torture Chambers of Science, by
Baron Weber.

Extracts from Schiff’s Lozioni.

Pseudo—Science.

Scientiﬁc Medicine.

The Millennium of Pasteurism, by Dr.
Clarke.

Lady Students and Vivisection.

Hospitals and Vivisection.

The Turn of the Scientiﬁc Tide.

Annual Meeting. Report of Speeches.

The Dog’s Appeal.

Dog and Man. .

A Plea for Animals. ””85“

The Hero and His Dog. ”

Humane Method of Slaughtering.

Pompey’s Peril, by Mrs. Cashel Hoey.

Fide et Amore, by Mrs. Pirkis.

The Lady of Greynton Grange, by
Blanche Mary Charming.

Memorandum of Association for Pro-
motion of Medicine by Research.
Crltlcised and Answered. 31 pp. folio.

»

Just Published.

Physiological Cruelty—A Reply to “ Phi‘
lanthropos.’ ’

Commentary on the Cruelty to Animals
Act. 1876, by Hon. B. Coleridge, Bar-
rister-at-Law.

The Study of Physiology as a Branch of
Education.

Experiments on Living Animals——
Analysis'of and Commentary on the
Annual Return.

Dr. Nordwall’s Address to the Scandi-
navian League.

The True Party of Progress.

A Dog being Dissected Alive.

Snake poison.

FRENCH.

Dr. Hoggan’s Letter to Morning Post
in French.

Adresse de M. Cowie.

Les Chiens de la Sorbonne.

M. Falateuf.

L’inutilité de la Vivisection. (Trans-

latipn of Mr. Lawson Tait’s pamph-
et.

Speech of

 

 

 

0n Salo.-—-The Clergy and Vivisection, by Mark Thornhil], Esq. Published by
Messrs. Hatchard and Co.

 

 

,1 .
-_ «v

if}:

I
fir-A

.. =45!» ‘

 

 




{Antonin (Stuart and @ntmmatimml (Sailing 17011 the
mutation at @nimzﬂs Mum iﬁ'inisqrﬁum

 

OFFICES: 1, VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.

 

President—THE EARL 0F SHAFTESBURY, KG.

Vice—Presidents.
THE LORD CHIEF JUSTICE OF ENGLAND.
HIS EMINENCE CARDINAL MANNING.
S. A. R. PRINCESS EUGENIE OF SWEDEN.

PRINCE LUCIEN

Her Grace the Duchess of Sutherland.

The Marquis of Bute.

The Marquis of Ailesbury.

The Marquis of Worcester.

The Earl of Darnley.

The Earl of Leven and Melville.

Viscount Sidmouth.

The Right Rev. the Bishop of Win-
Chester.

The Bishop of Bath and Wells.

The Bishop of Oxford.

Lord Cardross.

 

BONAPARTE.

Lord Mount-Temple.

Rt. Hon. Lord Justice Sir H. Lopes.
Rt. Hon. A. J. Mundella, M.P.
Rt. Hon. James Stansfeld, M.P.
The Dean of Llandaﬁ.

General Sir Percy Douglas, Bart.
Sir A. Malet, Bart.

Sir Gerald Codrington, Bart.

Sir William Thomson, LL.D.
Lord Tennyson.

William Adlam, Esq., F.S.A .
Robert Browning, Esq.

Central Executive Committee.

The Lady Abinger.

Mrs. .Adlam.

Hon. Evelyn Ashley, M.P.
The Lady Edith Ashley.
Ernest Bell, Esq.

Edward Berdoe, Esq., L.R.C.P.
Miss Olive Bryant.

The Countess of Camperdown.
Rev. W. H. Channing.

John H. Clarke, Esq., M.D.
Miss Frances Power Cobbe.
Hon. Stephen Coleridge.

J. F. B. Firth, Esq., M.P.
Lady Kemball.

Gilbert Harrison, Esq.

Miss L10yd.

 

Rev. J. Matthews.

Miss Marston.

Mrs. Frank Morrison.

The Lady Mount-Temple.

Colonel Morrison (Royal Body Guard).
F. E. Pirkis, Esq., R.N., F.R.G.S.
Her Excellency Lady Paget.

The Countess of Portsmouth.

Mrs. James Bender.

Miss Ellen E. Rees.

Robert T. Reid, Esq., M.P., Q.C.
Rev. H. Sinden.

Rev. J. Verschoyle.

Sir J. E. Eardley Wilmot, Bart, M.P.
J. Webster, Esq., LL.D., M1). .

Hon. Treasurer.—H0N. EVELYN ASHLEY, M.P.
Hon. Secretary.—MISS FRANCES POWER CORBE.
Secretary.—BENJAMIN BRYAN, ESQ.

 

HE object of this Society is the Total Abolition of the practice of Vivisection
as deﬁned in the Report of the Royal Commission.

Those who sympathise in this object are entreated to afford the Society all the
help in their power, by subscribing, and inducing others to subscribe, liberally to its
funds ; and also by obtaining signatures to Petitions to Parliament ; disseminating
the publications of the Society, and especially its organ The Zoophili-st, wherein the
latest information respecting the Anti-vivisection agitation is to be found.

Member’s Annual Subscription, 103., Life Member’s, £5.

Subscription to The

Zoophilést, the Organ of the Society, 3.9, 6d. per annum.

 




