a
”pal"

. _. n v ,1 L 1 - "/1, \ ; _
P .1 3 NOTES :33 :61: Q,
1%) m w. my

v‘x

)

>1L‘wﬁ , n . ' 2"“. 5‘
\
1

1 \.,L +\
,1- :94 2 /
y“ (ﬁr 29% 1.4 A. J. Ayer, Russell and Moore: The Analytical Heritage

CV*“=7EM :2 (Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press,

Fiﬁ
1971): P. 138.

*1" 9
G. J. Warnock, English Philosophy Since 1900 (London:

Oxford University Press, 1959), p. 12.

L. Susan Stebbing, "Moore's Influence," in Paul Arthur

Soﬁa L, edkter, The Philosophy of G. E. Moore (New

York: TUdOI)PHb$&ShIH@WGOm°» , 1952), p. 520.

Others might challenge the received opinion. See, for

example, A. C. Ewing, "Moore and Metaphysics," in

(Ambrose, A.§and Lazerowitz, M., editors, G. E. Moore:

 

Essavs in Retrospect (London: George Allen and Unwin,

1970), pp. 1394159.
i\i

.\
r: ‘

w \
1' "° '

. . . . \Qi ‘ , )v E (A:
nAn Autobiograth," iniThe Philosophy of G. E. Mooreﬁ»

{Ida-1.»; pp. 13%140

Bertrand Russell, "My Mental Development," in Paul
Arthur Schilpp, ed&tor, The Philosophy of Bertrand

Russell (New York: Harper, 1963), o. 12.

 




c" A" \
21 8
§ 0

{ﬂétudies in the Philosophy 0f 3- E- Moore, E' D' Klemke, Ti:

E. D. Klemke, "Did G. E. Moore Refute Idealismg" in

l

Meditor (Chicago: QuadrangleJBooksW.l969), pp. 3i24.

M

"An Autobiography," QQXﬁCitT} p. 18.

? 1-;- '3.

G. E. Moore, Principia Ethica (Cambridgejg The

University Press, 1960), pp. llO-E lll.

TOM Re am 3 ?mph1“81E MQOFQ MA “(11
Mid“ . . MOV‘Q "°§.°.?W (9‘4 ‘AAA'JPMLa. ' 7:!ng

"An Autobiography," M-tm, p. 21. Univerﬁcﬁ “853 (L387)

The characterization is J. N. Findlay's in his "Some

. Neglected Issues in the Philosophy of G. E. Moore," in

Ar“ w n 6
131a“. L’Dh‘\g.‘\.¥"ﬁﬁhu‘}

G. E. Moore: EsSays in Retrospect, *GPT"CTtTV p. 64.

Though, for reasons advanced in the foregoing,
Findlay's characterization is accurate for the most
part, there are notable exceptions. Gilbert Ryle
offers a lively and, I think, insightful review of some
of Moore's early essays, and Philip Petit a more
thorough exegesis of some major themes found in most of
the papers. See, respectively, "G. E. Moore's 'The

Nature of Judgment,‘" in G. E. Moore: Essays in

 

Retrospect,‘opwwe&t-h pp. 89%101, and "The Early

Philosophy of G. E. Moore,” PhilOSOphical Forum? 4f

Winter? 1972 73,ppsw 260- 298..i»1

T5“ 3

‘m trawl?”

 




:7”

1109 W MAIN STREET 0 DURHAM, NC 27701 O (9 79) 682-9197

25 July 1986

Prof. Tom Regan
3509 Eden Croft
Raleigh, NC 27609

Dear Professor Regan:

Enclosed please find two sets proof and the manuscript
for your book G. ‘E. Moore: The Early Essays.

Please note that one set is the master set of proof.
All of your corrections should be marked on this set, as
it is the only proof set that Temple will return to us.
The other set is for indexing purposes, and is so
marked.

 




‘44 .4» km
§‘¥vhdij’

running heads——recto and verso

Contents

Acknowledgments

Preface

Introduction

In What Sense, If Any, Do Past and Future Time Exist?
Freedom

The Nature of Judgment

Necessity

The Value of Religion

Identity

Mr. McTaggart‘s"Studies in Hegelian Cosmology”
Experience and Empiricism

Mr. McTaggart's Ethics

Kant's Idealism

Index

 




i

G. E. Moore

ﬂ“ 2:?

Ehe Early Essays

 




. r“

,“

mwup‘w‘mv >

”Y . V Tm? mﬁf‘f §$§AYS VY

Edited by

Egaﬁﬁaén

Phi}adelphiar;g

,, 1...“, 5

 




-. k1.“ f; “a
1 ' " ﬂ}! ,
(FMiﬁh New
4" “13.2"“ ask”, u" y ”3.. ,m‘ ,' a. U ‘er ,
‘3 EX MR «’42 L. 1.. 2M 3 a: ,7 \‘7-“7 a; ’1 ‘3“
RX

hr,
copyright page——p. iv

Temple University Press, Philadelphia 19122
rEQk

Copyrightifc} 1986 by Temple University. All rights reserved
arr.

Published 1986

Printed in the United States of America
”M on

F r 1 xx
The paper used in this publication meets the minimum

requirements of American National Standard for Information

I \ I I I
Sc1ences—-Permanence of Paper for Printed Library Materials,
N2

ANSI Z39.48:l984.
(g? 2

1 'V V J
, "=35!”ng 7””

V; £43mtemeome

""4.{£i1"-.",1»;3 :« Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data ,,
“A F ' H 3'41“ Fen 1’ Moore , G . E . (george Edward), 1873-21958 .
'4; {-91.4 :2 L; G. E . Moore 1: the early essays .N

/ V'r

.,V
H.“ .. ‘ . «

mgz’kewk‘; i \\\\\ ; Includes index. \ .,
”$3131.43; 2 1. Philosophy.t§l. Regan, Tom.¥,.,.':.II. Title.
B1647.M7362’C11986 jij‘iiIfiIJ'T'i? 192 86:6007;
ISBN 0287722244210 (alk. paper)f“‘;:§f

 




D

.g wan vw: ~.m—.. .-_.

("I ECLMYTEACHERS ' . ”/2

Pﬁfé’é 'vafA'T‘HTANb. DM'I'D‘f' YALD‘EN-moMsou ,‘ g . mini}

7&9 INTRODUCED MEI Io @QQ‘R‘JE'S PHILOSOPHY .7; , ‘

‘.
$
~ ‘

. ‘, x’
--K:...* ,

 

I ‘1' T . ,




 

gsiﬁﬁﬁg H U!“ Q W

m .

“T V34
fIntroduction
17' In What Sense, if any, do Past and Future Time Exist?
+k: 1 ' A
Freedom
\4“ f
The Nature of Judgment

‘ +-

._a.

Necessity
‘ ¥_

The Value of Religion

“Y

Identity

k

Mt,iMcTaggart's "Studies in Hegelian Cosmology”
EZSerience and Empiricism

M : McTaggart's Ethics

Kant‘s Idealism

 




      
    
     
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 

 

I , ”-,_l K )5 £13 I F ‘: ’ 4' 'v > '~
Am.¢,fiw .. ~lmiwmw~<~ri~ ‘ ~~-~:»
‘- f. ’51 .% y 5.. ,’ u -_ ‘_ 'U . a. x \a..
3’ . fl". 5- ,, , H . !\ h
. 323,15": ‘ -

't 11.. e —- A " a .1 pgmcs W i ' ““'
Wgﬁigu}? During the academic year 198u-1985, it was my great pleasure to hold \\/Y§ (ft x3»
'3 g “4.”. -§ _

the position of Fellow at the National Humanities Center. I was accepted
as a Fellow to work on a book-length study of she moral phiIOSOphy of GRF. ﬁﬂm» 5‘?” V¢V*:
Moore. That project, Bloomsburyis Prophet: G.E. Moore and the Development

of His Moral Philosophy, is now complete. Its publication marks the first

installment on my debts both to Moore and to the Center.

M
I.-

¢«L A second installment is the present collection of Moore's early . I» W ‘ /* ’”' .

"N’s

essays.\mAnnangedmchnonologically”and”reprddﬁcedWHére“aswtheymoniginallgwgi“wwwmwwmwwm
~4HHMHEM§§§WGthewﬁﬁﬁberswatmfhé"top”of“eachwpagewarewthesemefwmhewoﬁiginalw
pub]: was»; on; amt-hiemnuambersatthre bottoak-,w-mthosew-@Mhewpmsexitmmlumel $.31...
”‘geither the idea of forming this collection nor the time to do it would
‘have presented themselves to me had it not been for my tenure as a Fellow.
For having these and other blessings I am grateful to those who wrote in
Support of my application, to the members of the Selection Committee for

finding merit in my plan of study, to my university, North Carolina State

University, for its support of research in the humanities, and to all the

   
    
  

members of the Center's staff for their cordial interest. It is doubtful

whether there are many better places in the world for humanistic scholars

   
    
   
 
    

to carry on their research. May the work of those of us who have had the
privilege of making our temporary homes at the Center be a small but

lasting repayment for the abundant opportunities we have enjoyed.

uRaILLeMLguhw-w«aMoamtﬁhaigamolimaw
iMamahm%9&@ww




:~g These prev1ously published essays by ngw Moore are '?
W\‘c" cm) {x a t... " ,1 \ :3. a '1‘ C.“ X‘ ,4? ‘~ . ., _1 :x -~ Ck ‘* ‘- :a, .' " ' "1 {RM “w“ "
C collected here for the first time.’\Near his death in 1958 Moore

opposed their republication. Permission to collect them at this
My. g, ; .. ! MM ' ( 1/” "" 13,2411“: ("“3 g . :53: i" ;; Ari: 6 {3% L3 1 2 If

time was:granted by Moore' dﬂmurwnnhdaxamany“heirwwthe.composep~
Cmﬁ’i, {1'14 M‘Q anti? .2. SQWJ “ﬁg? {:«4\ Megﬁg WW
othy Moore

I am immensely grateful to Timothy Moore for his support of

”1“

this project and to Casﬁimir Lewy for saving me from a number of
factual errors in my Introduction. If the present volume

achieves its aim of helping to rekindle scholarly interest in

,4 x

Moore's work, I hope Timothy Moore and Cassimir Lewy will accept

this achievement as fair payment for their confidence and? trust.

i EH CM» T1632“ ‘ K “1;: ”7 ii. “i“ 1‘16: k {i
I“

»«g I also oweWa/debgsof gratitude to Jane Cullenipf Temple

“Ms
University Press, for heﬁAwise counsel and moral support on this

.a‘“ E
’ ‘ l

"S.

Vx‘y ii

a x f? * ’ ‘
:1 1,... 5"‘«_
i

‘7 yr";
7 '1k V

3 i g

 




half title page—-p. 1

EG. E. Moore
1IQ§WEQ£lXWE§§gY§‘F~-i3

 




 

y” ‘ v 2
« -.t._.l._....~_...-.-......-,. ., . " ‘ I . -
-.........,._,m~——<~‘ .,..‘..,.,,.\;.-4..m -. ~ . ”we: m. .1" y .3 1, ¢ A?" ‘ ‘ .. -m..vmv~~\._‘...n. u...- _ Li 1“
L, ‘a» wu> IMTRODUCTION , xgg~.
2...: I : 6 {Lu ‘ " 1‘va 'ﬂ‘ >01!
.5$F v»:u

WK. ,
44“

, \
. $.-

2 iytjﬁ The Moore most of us know is half the man he was.
\i‘lr‘

Accustomed as we are to distinguishing between the various
stages of a philosopher's development, finding it natural to

speak of the early Plato, for example, or the later

Wittgenstein, we seem almost to suppose that Moore was never

a
early. Or later. Moore was--well, Moore was Moore, born
. h“

with a proof of the external world in his mouth.
“4 Anyone who has made even a cursory examination of
Moore's published work knows that this is the Moore of
popular mythology, not the Moore of hard historical fact.
The later Moore, let us agree, distinguished himself as the

plain man's philosopher. But not the early Moore, not the

Moore we meet up to and through Principia Ethica. That

 

Moore voiced paradoxes that would have taken the later
Moore's breath away, energetically endorsing propositions
which, as we shall note briefly below, his future self found
"perfectly monstrous."

.i~; Why does the early Moore remain unknown to so
many? Partly no doubt this is due to the near idolatrous
stature the elder Moore enjoyed, the glow from.which,
associated as it was with his defense of common sense,

conspired to keep the raucous philosophical exuberance of

his youth in the shadows. And partly, too, we know

 




  

comparatively little of the early Moore because of the later Moore's

   
    
   
   
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
   
 

influence on a particular "school" of philosophy, ordinary language

philosophy, so-called, the members of which, themselves disdainful of

speculative metaphysics, wergedmte perpetuate the saaqeine fable that their

hero never dabbled in that suspicious trade. But plausible as these
explanations are, neither, whether taken separately or together, is quite

enough. Each fails to mention the essential role Moore himself played in . VVHQQan4~t5

.\ r .
controlling Gheﬁe—gartsmeéwhamself his successors would most likely knowg

<3bu~
iﬁxmyapartsghe-made readilynbublic. Burltherewwerewethervwmorewprivatem

 

Mpartswwsowtewspeakwmwhiehwhewhelpedmmekewresc cacwaor,u§ fo.seei-

6?; In addition to dozens of reviews and a number of miscellaneous
writings, including his important contributions to Paul A. Schilpp's The

Philosophy of G. E. Moore (1942), Moore publisned three booklength studies
: . l .

  
  

during his lifetime: Principia Ethica (1903), Some Main Problems of

 

 

 
 

   

    
 

PhilOSOphy *k9fﬁ%ff A selection from three courses of

 

(i953yf,

 

lectures given at Cambridge at various times between 1925 and 1934 was

 
  

edited by Casimir Lewy and published in 1966 under the title Lectures on

 
   

 

   
   

Philosophy. A second posthumous volume, also edited by Lewy, appeared in

   

. \ . .
1962 under the title Commonplace Book.l9l9-l953. It is a collection of
if; N}
philosophical notes from those years. Moore himself oversaw the

       
        

publication of Philosophical Studies (1922), a Collection of ten papers

wx
<~ :woW 1903?te‘l921 two of which had not been published before. In the
an

 

   
         

 
  

‘\—.~-

 

summer of 1959 there appeared a second collection of essays, Philosophical

 

 
      

V,_v
Papers. This contains ten papers from 192335991955, two of which were
k\xQ

     
     
 

published in the collection for the first time. Moore died in October 1958,
_"N_ 7, y f VVVVVVV “‘3 ‘2! 515,-: _/ J

and thgswcouldwnotmseewhis book through the Press. This was done by Lewy.
N A ~

 
       




These collections of papers, the posthumously published books, the three
books published during his lifetime, and a few of the miscellaneous
writings, most notably his contributions to the Schilpp volume, form the
standard Moorean corpus with which most philosophers are familiar.

53‘ Viewing this corpus in the abstract, one might naturally infer that
Moore wrote nothing before 1903, the date of publication both of Principia
Ethica and of "The Refutation of Idealism," the earliest published essay
included in Philosophical Studies. However natural this inference might
be, the conclusion bears no resemblance to reality. Moore published no
fewer than ten papers between 1897 and 1903, of which only "The Refutation
of Idealism" was republished. The other nine remain shelved away,
gathering dust in rare back issues of the Enternational Journal of Ethics,
for example, or the Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society. Together with

a paper on Kant, published in 1904, these papers form an essential part of

:1 ' ‘ '1 x..-“

the total Moorean corpus,wthe "private" part that affords us a glimpse of
A

. g.
the neglected early Moore, both Moore; the

 

 




fledgling idealist metaphysician, for example, and Moore/L
the leader of a revolt against the idealistic metaphysic to
which he was initially so attracted. That most of us know
so little about this period of Moore's philosophical
development is, if I am right, in no small measure due to
what Moore left out of, as well as what he put into, the
collections of essays he drew together during his

lifetime. We know little of the early Moore Fin short,

of: {'th gal/Ute! *5“ng
partly because the later Moore left us little we could a

/-‘
easily study. The present collection of the early essays
seeks to overcome this serious omission from his legacy.
f‘; It is not difficult to confirm that a fresh
examination of these essays will serve to correct received
opinions about Moore's philosophical apprenticeship, A. J.
Ayer, for example, in his discussiigw of Moore' 5
philosophical development, gaseeésfghat "Na)lmost all that
Moore thought it necessary to say about the grand
metaphysical questions of God and Immortality is contained
in one short paragraph of the essay, wA Defense of Common
Sense,$’which be contributed to the second volume of

‘1'
Contemporary British Philosophy in l925.ﬂ$/ Now, it is true

that we find no lengthy discussion of either God or

/Immortality in the standard Moorean corpus. But two essays

in the present collection assault Ayer's judgment. ‘&The
Value of Religion,3 published in 1901, is a sustained
critical examination of the rationality of belief in God,

and the greater part of a second essay, ﬁMr. McTaggart's

 




a . 7‘ d, A\ i 1 x‘ y‘ Ctr“ :q
» r . -, » ‘3‘ ,_ . ,_ s . « .y 7 .. 3.. ~ . - . > , . . » . .
V~‘~....slfl a... vs“. i ' 9 4'" “-19: z - = , .,

¢Studies in Heg

elian Cosmology,+5{published in l902,

tﬂvtﬁﬂ%81a lengthy critical examination of the belief in
immortality. That Moore in his later work did not continue
to explore these "grand metaphysical questions" may be
affirmed. But that is no reason to deny that he did explore
them earlier, and no reason to continue to neglect the
arguments he offers there.

C); The mythological Moore, the philosopher who defended
common sense as soon as he was able to speak prose, is
captured with considerable elegance by G. J. Warnock in his
English Philosophy Since 1900. Moore, he writes, "seems to

have been §.E.§.§entirely without any of the motives that

tend to make a metaphysicanj.3.{.f Heé. . . had no leanings

I ' ’ ‘

whatever towards paradox and peculiarity of opinionﬁ. .:. He
a...“ ' J . O
§.:.§.‘dld not hanker for any system on his own

I

account§.5.%.§ He did not borrow a modish metaphysical idiom

3

to make up for, or to conceal, his own real lack of relish
for any such thing.“3 Warnock's description is a variation
on a familiar theme, one we find played again, for example,
by Susan Stebbing, who writes that Moore "never attempted to
produce anything like a philosophical system."gx TO bolster

her case,~Miss Stebbing quotes a marvelous passage from

Moore's "Freedom": "the region of the incompletely known is
the favourite abode of a metaphysical monstrosity. In plain
language, where facts are not completely understood, some

short-sighted metaphysical theory is generally introduced as

affording an easy road past the difficulties which stand in

 




the way of thorough investigation." Moore, Miss Stebbing

assures us, "SwasS never?.§.§. tempted to enter this easy
“"m 3:35

road."

v._ D

‘; Now, all this is, perhaps, a fair description of the
later Moore;€/ It is wildly inaccurate when matched against
the early Moore, however. Once we have read Moore's "The
Nature of Judgment," for example, we shall never again
suppose that "he had no leanings whatever towards paradox
and peculiarity of opinion." "The world," Moore there
maintains, is "formed of concepts," including existence,
which "is itself a concept." Thus, "all that exists is
{.‘.;ﬁ composed of concepts necessarily related to one
another in specific manners, and likewise to the concept of
existence." Even the youthful Moore knew a paradox when he

expressed one, noting that "I am fully aware how paradoxical

this theory must appear, and even how contemptible." But

that did not prevent him from maintaining it then, in 1898,

._ 3.
W. 1""

wrﬁ \‘v “Iv - ' - .W *3;
when, the descriptions of Warnock and Stebbing tetthew’

eentrary, Moore did hanker after a "system" of his own. For

unlike some later critics of speculative metaphysics, Moore

was not then intent upon undermining the whole metaphysical

,/
enterprise. I§;/in "Freedom/" he laments the existence of

l

I

metaphysical monstrosities, he does so because they are

monstrosities, not because they are metaphysical. The

younger Moore aspired to move metaphysics out of the
disreputable abode of the "incompletely known" into a

neighborhood more in keeping with her status as the Queen of

 




015
. .Z . : .
the Solences. If we demythologige Moore, permitting him to
speak for himself, we find an earnest young man with visions
of replacing false metaphysical theories with a true one of
his own.
533 But it is Moore himself, not just his commentators,
who sometimes helps cultivate our ignorance of his

Ox“,

philosophical past. In a famous passge in his "An 2:

Autobiography " he recounts his first meeting with «4 V

\. .
.\ \ a" v y-. "' N . a ”V“, ’ ‘ '
HM =. ,1, "w i . w“! M

«084

McTaggarttx Russellvhad invited me to tea in his rooms to
meet McTaggart," Moore recalls, "and McTaggart, in the
course of conversation had been led to express his
well—known view that Time is unreal. This must have seemed
to me then (as it still does) a perfectly monstrous
proposition, and I did my best to argue against it."§
Though this may be a true account of Moore's initial
reaction to that "perfectly monstrous proposition," the

inference which, by his silence, he invites us to

makeffnamely, that he always regarded this proposition as

ft,

‘-1
"perfectly monstrous";+is not borne out by the contents of
if.

his early essays. In his first published philosophy, a

contribution to a 1897 symposium entitled? "In What Sense,

0

,2
f any, Do Past and Future Time Exist?"h for example, Moore

M
“4““

concludes as follows: i the

r
3

‘z i f: ‘ i 3 ’H ‘ .
\wa I need, then,3.§.%.§ﬂ to give a direct answer to our
\ 'o a A

question, I would say that neither Past, Present, nor

Future exists, if by existence we are to mean the

ascription of full Reality and not merely existence as

Appearance.v

 




      
  
   
  
  
  
    
  
   
   
    
    

"perfectly

   

If this looks very like an endorsement of that
monstrous proposition," the following passage, from Moore's

1898 essay,’"Freedom,"m leaves no room for doubt.
In} *5 “\3 .
x ,

.X’
4 . mm"

.1 \ “J", L ; t

I , CL 1" _ ,_£ ,
l . o I

I ‘ ' Aryans-am .-’-.«~,..

5.
“w, 'mﬂmﬁ «ma... 44

That time itself cannot be conceived to be fundamentally ;?Q$
”if }f_m < real is always admitted by Kant himself, and indeed be A
has attempted a proof of it. How far his proof is

satisfactory, and whether, if unsatisfactory, any other

proof is forthcoming, is too large a question to be

fully discussed here. I can only state that the

arguments by which Mr. Bradley has endeavoured to prove

i the unreality of Time appear to me abssletelya

% conclusive.‘J' r“

5'!

H.‘:.‘ ‘T,

v x id; ‘5. k; a,“ ,~

Let this be a lesson to us: We do well to read these essays

t \ =¢ \ ‘1, :ﬁ 5

        
   
 

in their own terms and not rely for guidance about the early

Moore's views on the elder Moore's stated recollections.

  
   
   
   

r ‘ Failing to read these essays not only is likely to

I

  

perpetuate our misunderstanding of Moore's philosophical

    
   

it is equally likely to foster our

   

development,

   

misoerceotion of the timing and logic of Moore‘ s influence
OFJ‘elL\W£\/§SQ MJ—VOC‘ got/wig
Russellw Both Moore and Russell cut their philosophical
41v ,
teeth on Bradley' 3 Absolute Idealism, and though both in

        
       

time renounced their allegiance to Bradley's theories,

    

Russell has made it abundantly clear that it was Moore who

   

blazed the trail. Moore, Russell writes,€/

       




took the lead in the rebellion, and I followed with a
sense of emancipation. Bradley had argued that
everything that common sense believes in is mere
appearance; we reverted to the opposite extreme, and
thought that everything is real/rthat common sense,
uninfluenced by philosophy or theology, supposes real.
With a sense of escaping from prison, we allowed
ourselves to think that grass is green, that the sun and
the stars would exist if no one was aware of them, and
also that there is a pluralistic timeless world of
Platonic ideas. The world which had been thin and
logical, suddenly became rich and varied and solid.
Russell dates this rebellion against Bradley (and Hegel and

0v Pﬂrtod NKQ’VA Mom-c. Mk5 workmg 6M
Kant) as 1898,ﬁfha_yaas_éa=nti:$r+kxma&1&abl¢shedrcThe Nature

of Judgment." If we are to understand the rebellion's
philosophical basis, therefore, it is to this paper, which
offers an extended critique of Bradley's views, that we must
look.

Lﬁg As a matter of history, this much is beyond
dispute. And yet E. D. Klemke, for example, in his paper

"Did G. E. Moore Refute Idealism?)

(0'

7
"¥%fter quoting the very

same passage from Russell reproduced above, goes on to

examine Moore's 1903 paper, "The Refutation of Idealism," a

paper which examines, not Bradley's theories, but the
Berkeleian thesis that esse is percipi. Bradley's views

about Reality do not put in so much as an appearance in the

1903 paper on idealism. Moreover, when Klemke does refer to

 




some of Moore's other published quarrels with idealism, the
seminal 1898 paper, which does examine Bradley's views, is
notfevenwmentioned.

”-3 None of this, of course, is meant to question the
adequacy of Klemke's analysis of Moore's later arguments
against idealism. It is meant only as an historical
pointer: We are unlikely to underégnd the context and logic
of those arguments that prompted first Moore, then Russell,
to break loose of the ties that bound them to Bradleian
idealism if we look for, and think we have found, the
historical moment of that break in a paper published some
fives years after that break occurred. Nor, indeed, are we
any more likely to understand these matters if we make rash
inferences based on Russell's testimony. For Moore'sfﬁ ﬂ.
Agonception of "the common sense view of the world" did not
come full-blown into the world in l898. At least as late as
the 1901 paper, "The Value of Religion," we find a Moore
who, unlike the Moore we encounter in his later writings, is
unable to claim to know, with certainty, thatafgch
propositions as "This hand moves" or "I movedE are true.

‘9‘.

. Jr" .
Though we "cannot help believingvthem," he writes, all such

propositions "are possibly not true;-Wwwlwwlweannetwprovew

 

thatwthese thingsmasemsewmandmyouwcanmesmeithervwewceptwfromww
pramisasmequallymdsubtfukwfnwthemselvesqm Russell's
recollection of the rebellion led by the early Moore may be,

and doubtless is, yeridical. But what it meant for Moore to

. . E . . .
believe in "commonsense" in 1898 IS demonstrably different

from what it meant for him to believe in it later.

 




CW The reference to Kant in the passage from "Freedom,"
quoted earlier, points up a neglected area of Moorean
scholarship. After announcing his intention in that paper
to concentrate on Kant's view of Freedom, Moore goes on to
expla1n that he "hachhosen to deal with him at such length

T because I think that reference to the views of the

philosopher, with whom you are most in agreement, is often

. ”‘1

the clearest way of explaining your own views . . 1‘" It is

not McTaggart's, nothidgwick‘s} not Bradley'SDViews that

are here singled out as those with which Moore's "are most
in agreement." It is Kant's. Indeed, it is Kant's views,
more than any other single philOSOpher's, that emerge time
and time again for discussion in these early essays, not
only in "Freedom," but also in "The Nature of Judgment"
(189a), "Necessity“ (1900), "Experience and Empiricism"
(1902), and "Kant's Idealism" (1904). The distance by which
Moore disassociates himself from Kant is a measure of the
early Moore's philosophical growth. Whereas in 1897 it is
Kant's views, especially his idealism, with which Moore's
own "are most in agreement," by 1904 he is able to declare
that "Kant's idealism§.i.f.iis certainly false." How this

b V

transition frovaantian-discipline'to severe critic came
/\

(1/

about/ is too large a chapter in Moore's intellectual

history to attempt to tell here. That the transition did

(nan/SQ 4’0 12, R3UI/tf; Al". '8aiJr’Hﬁ
occur, and that its explanation is ”En these fibl?

“a 1
‘\

early essaySF—these are the key points to be urged on this
“"(K

occasion. We shall never understand the unadvertised price

 




Moore paid for his defense of common senseE/if we do not

understand how magnetically he was initially attracted to

sf”,

the view that the furniture o'f; the plain mah' s world,wh$3~

A/‘j‘, ..- 3:? “'11“
u’ I

'w., is ne$\fundamentally real.
But while it is Kant' s presence that dominates,

1‘ —~ mac—-

other notable philosopherih McTaggart, in particular, and,
through him, Hegeléﬁenjoy a large share of Moore'sncritical
attention. "Identity" (1901), for example,ﬂi¢’a painstaking
critique of Hegel's views, while McTaggart's positions are

the main focus of "Mr. McTaggart's 'Studies in Hegelian

Cosmology'" (1901) and "Mr. McTaggart's Ethics" (1903).

\\
K

These last two essays represent Moore's philosophical homage
to his valued mentor. For it was McTaggart, Moore recalls,
who had the greatest influence on him as a student. Not
only did McTaggart produce "the impression of being
immensely clever and quick in argument," he was constantly
insisting on clearness, "on trying to give a precise meaning
to philosophical expressions, asking the question /Vhat does
this mean€ﬂg/ The later Moore, as is well known, made this
same insistence on clarity an inseparable part of his
philosophical character. But nowhere, perhaps, does he
indulge this acquired habit more than in these two essays
devoted to refuting McTaggart's views.. One must assume that
the teacher was flattered by the compliment paid by the
student.

53% Hegel, Kant, McTaggart, and Bradley, each in his own

way subscribed to a version of idealism. Because Moore's

 




examinations of this metaphysical propensity grew

increasingly critical as the years advanced, it would be

natural to suppose that he put all his idealistic baggage

behind him b 1903. not c ear that this is true,
as mulFus-rm’déé '1 Consciemm‘

however, 3424 one “‘1' w SuQCjCDL t1 QC it. might nut

 

 

.considan certain wellwknown features of his moral
philosophy.

tai Moore's acute disaffection with naturalism in

ethics, especially as this is expressed in Principia Ethica,

 

for example, arguably is related to his chronic displeasure
with empiricism in philosophy generally. And that
displeasure, as we see in these early essays, he first
acquired from his youthful affair with the idealists.
Kant's Transcendental Deduction, for example, Moore writes
in "The Nature of Judgmenqgfs"contains a perfectly valid

answer to Hume's scepticism, and to empiricism generally.'

/;§oreover, and relatedly, when, in Principia, Moore

 

classifies goodness as a nonnatural property, it is
difficult to ignore the shadows idealism still casts on his
thought. "It is not goodness," he declares, "but only the
things or qualities which are good, which can exist in
timeG-can have duration, and begin and cease to exist. "3/
Does this mean that there is no such thing as goodness?
Moore seems clearly to think that there is, just as he seems
clearly to think that there are numbers. However, to
believe in the reality of things which, by their very

r; ($42"

nature, do not exist in time, is to embrace the spirit, if

 




     
  
    
    
    
     
      
         
    
 
     
 

not every letter, of idealism. Is it possible, thenEfor Moore to have it

‘0’
can“

both ways, denying idealism; on the one handE/and, on the other, affirming
an ethic which seems to rest on what appear to be idealistic
presuppositions? Again, if there is a compelling answer to be found, it is
unlikely that we shall find it without consulting the early essays, even
those containing no eXplicit reference to ethical questions.

5?; In my view the rewards of giving these essays a close re-examination
are much greater than these brief introductory remarks can show. The moral
philosophy we find in Principia, for example, embodies Moore's answers to
questions he had earlier considered in papers published before 1903. Read
in this light, Principia may be seen as a step along the way to the mature
development of his views in and about ethécs. I have attempted to tell
this story inﬁm§Bloomsbury's Prophet: éjﬁ. Moore and the Develogment of
His Moral PhilOSOthgfaThat story involves a close study of Moore's

neglected views about belief in God, including the views we find in "The

   

Value of Religion." But it also involves a fresh examination of the other

points of emphasis mentioned in the precedingwfaaMoore's early affinities

i I) ‘\_

with Bradley, for example, and the influence of Kant and McTaggart. How

  
  
    

compelling my account of the development of Moore's moral philosophy is,

and how persuasive my eXplanation of its powerful influence on the

     
   
    

Bloomsbury Group happens to be, are here less important than recognizing

the pivotal role Moore's pre—Principia writings must come to play for

  

subsequent Moorean scholarship, not only relative to his views in ethics

7%, .
but elsewhere as wellffewhis views in epistemology, for example.




ﬂﬁi It is unclear what Moore, if he were alive, would think of the present

collection of his essays. That he himself
iwiiﬁmﬁ{i L,~ ~- ~r i«,ariiw .<~ m

did not anthologise them and
w £2. a g i ‘ ,4. «\ng

~Eequ.stedmthatwa%rhers notmdewsoﬁﬁuggests that he had lost whatever
§“\

{ k , km E“ .1

enthusiasm for them he at one time may have felt. From remarks he makes in
his "An Autobiography," moreover, we know something of his opinion of
"Freedom." Though he had not looked at it "for a long time," he states

a ii.
that he "may no doubt that it {is} absolutely worthiessJM Perhaps
Moore would make the same harsh judgment about most, if not all, of the
essays collected here, though even the elder Moore, writing in 19u2, after
noting that he is "sure that {fThe Nature of Judgmentij must have been full
of cogfusions," does allow that "I think there was probably some good in
it."‘ . Like most of us, Moore may have felt that there were few sins as
irredeemable as those of his youth. And these essays are the product of
his youth: he was only twenty-four when "Freedom" was written, just
twenty—nine when Principia first appeared. Moreover, this work was
accomplished after only two years of formal study in philOSOphy (189ui’“
1896). Whatever we may think of the lasting significance of these essays,
Moore's raw talent surely was prodigious.
:‘i Suppose we assume that Moore would raise%€distraugh£eyebrow if asked
to look at these essays again. I do not think we should let this deter us.
What we owe to our predecessors is our best effort to understand what light
they have left us, and how they acquired it. And what we owe to our
successors is our dedication to ease the burdens of their scholarship, when

we can. This collection should meet these obligations, first, because it

presents us with a fuller, more realistic view of Moore, one that should

 




help us correct past and present misperceptions of the man and his
philosophy, both those misperceptions fathered by his commentators and
those encouraged by Moore himself. And, second, the ready availability of
these early essays should also help move Moorean scholarship up a notch or
two in the future. That is all the present collection would hope. Or
presume. «Rechaps. afterwall. Moore would not~objectts Certainly we show
the later Moore no disrespect by allowing the early Moore the Opportunity
to speak again, freed from the not inconsiderable weight of his own future
reputation, this time to a new and, one hopes, wider audience. In this way
we might even soften the paradox that, despite his immense influence on

others and the uncommon esteem in which he was held a—-indeed, no doubt in
x.

Vr

no small measure because of this o-wMoore remains "the unknown

philosopgx. .p%§<

"I“ m‘.

 




