 

 

 

‘I

we waif m II5EAL15M *
IQ G. E litoons. .

. "‘IT' has been hitherto assumed,” says Kantﬁ/I“ that all our

 

 

 

knowledge must conform to objects; but- on this assumption
all attempts to make out anything about those objects
aﬂpg’gﬁ by means of conceptions, in such a way as to
enlarge our knowledge, came to nothing. Then let us try for
once, whether we do not succeed better in the problems of
Metaphysics, by assuming that objects must conform to our
knowledge; an hypothesis, which is immediately more agree-.7“
able to the desired possibility of an apnom knowledge of
them-rife. knowledge which can establish something with regard
to objects, before they are given to usjv It is with this assump-
tion as with the ﬁrst ideas of Copernicus, who, when he
found he could not advance in the explanation of the motions
of the heavenly bodies, on the assumption that the whole host
of stars revolved around the spectator, tried Whether he could
not succeed better, if he supposed the spectator to revolve and
the stars to stand still Now a similar experiment can be made
in Metaphysics, so far as concerns the Ignition of objects. If
our intuition were bound to conform tothe nature of the objects,
I do not see how we can know anything a priori about that
nature ; but if the object (as presented to the senses) conforms
to the nature of our intuitive faculty, I can very well imagine
such a possibility. Since, however, I cannot stop short at these
intuitions, if they are to be converted into knowledge, but must
relate them as presentations to something or other as object
and must determine this object by their means, I can again i
j r; 3:: r ,
Tl ‘.; i“ Preface to Second Edition of Critique of Pure Reason.
4+. 2. 73 My italics.
B ' a

 

I

’5. ‘t l ‘5‘)

'

 

 

 




128.4... ,. 1 «e; s. »vmooan.

either assume that the canceptions, by means of which I bring
this determination to pass, also conform to the object, and then
I am again in the same perplexity regarding the manner in
which I can know anything about it ﬂgpmom or else I assume
that the objects or (which is the same thing) our gmpqyfieace, in
which alone they are known as given objects, conforms to these
conceptions, and then I at once see an easier way out of my
difﬁculty, since experience is itself such a kind of knowledge
as to require the Understanding; and I must presuppose the
rule of the Understanding iit_qmy3c’lf,Vbefore objects are given
me, that is, must presuppose. it a priorifa rule which is
expressed in {twpgijglom' conceptions, to whiCh accordingly all
objects of experience must necessarily conform, and with which
they must agree."

 

 

 

 

mum. .mv‘nw -~rI~O“' ' ’

’7‘ i In this passage Kant gives a sufﬁciently clear account of
one of the points in which his Idealism differs from the
Idealism of Berkeley, with which he was so angry at having his
own confused. And this point is the one to which, as he
himself explains, he refers by calling his theory Transcendental
Idealism. He means by that title that he attributes merely
ideal existence, or existence in the mind, to certain entities
which are not indeed transcendent, since they are not objects, but

 

 

 

 

_O-H—“-l- n -

, . . 14.;
u..- an”; enmacwag-w

which are also not pails of experience or pa1 ticular experiences,
since they are, as he says, conditions of all possible experience
These entities are not objects—substantial individuals or things— I
but are merely “ fox 111s ” in which the objects of experience are
arranged: they are the forms of Intuition, Space and Time,
and the forms of thought, conceptions of the Understanding or
“ categories,” of which one instance is “causality.” Kant’s
Idealism is Transcendental, and differs from Berkeley’s in that,
whereas Berkeley only maintained the “1deal1ty, 01 merely
mental existence of particular objects, Kant maintains the
ideality of the f01ms in which these objects are ar1anged.
Berkeley and others before Kant had not perceived the [\1‘

“I.

 

 

-- w ‘ A'kk“

 

wag
\1W

1”
g? ' i" MyitalicafKD h

, ‘ .. .,‘..‘.‘-.
»\-.O-oaosou .o-m’dow trio-WA "nu-u v99WW

<‘ r:- s‘7@}

_ , +1...

 

 




W8 amass: m .129,

necessity of distinguishing so clearly between sense-impressions,
“ the matter of knowledge,” and the forms in which all such
impressions are always arranged.

'3 lKant, then, here gives us one point in which his Idealism
differs from Berkeley’s; he holds, what Berkeley did not
expressly hold, that space and time and causality exist only
in or for the mind. And he also gives us one of the reasons .
which lead him to think this particular view of his true. If,
he says, we only saw that particular objects had geometrical
properties, we could not possibly be entitled to assert that all”,

constituted that, whenever anything 18 presented to it, it invests
that thing with geometrical properties, that we can be entitled
to assert that everything we shall ever experience will have
those properties. In short, Kant offers his theory as an
explanation of how we can know that certain things are true
of all objects. If, he says, we know that the mind always
attaches these predicates to everything presented to it, then we
can know that everything presented will have these predicates.
Therefore, he concludes, the only predicates which do attach to
all things—formal predicates—are given to them by the mind.
f. ; Kant’ s Transcendental Idealism is thus connected with what
was certainly a great discovery of his. He discovered that all
mathematical propositions are what he calls :_§ynthetig:'7788
he here'”smy “ enlarge our knowledge.” They do
not merely tell us that a certain predicate is a part of that of
which we predicate it : they tell us that A has the predicate B,
although B is neither identical with A, nor a part of A; they
are not identical nor analytic. Hume had convinced Kant that
the proposition, “ Every event has a cause,” was not analytic;
and, in thinking of this fact, Kant discovered, what no one.
had clearly recognised before, that 2H» 21:; 4 was not analytic
either. Hume had inferred, that we had no reason whatever
to believe that every event had a cause; but Kant thought it
was obviously absurd to maintain this of 231' 2 i=4: it was
a ' 11

_

 




x"

A -- '
p/ ‘1“, “r
L“ , my '

130 . - . G. EJMOORE. ,.

. +,.
+

i":Calisurd to say that we had no title to assert “21+5i2 are
always 4’.’ to admit that2 : '_. might sometimes make 4 and
sometimes not. But, on the other hand, all previous philo-iﬂ
sophers, who had held that we did know ym’wrsal propositions,
had held that they were analytic; that it was only because
they asserted “B is a part of A B,” or “A” is identical
with “ A,” that we could know them to be always true. Kant,
therefore, saw an entirely new difﬁculty. He saw, in come-7
quence of what Hume said, that .2' '+ :2 = 4 was synthetic;
yet he was convinced (what Hume would have led him to
deny) that 2 + 2— ,— 4 was always true—true of every case.
In his own words, he recognised for the ﬁrst time that there
are “a prior; synthetic propositions.” He asked himself the
question: How are synthetic a 1271,0711 propositions possible?
And Transcendental Idealism was his answer. They are

 

 

possible only because Space, Time, and the categories are
“‘ ideal ”—,7ways in which the mind arranges things.
3 i I have thus represented Kant’s Transcendental Idealism as

 

 

an attempt to answer the question : How can we know 2§@§?€T3“l,
synthetic propositions to be true? This is certainly a part.
of the meaning of the passage which I have quoted: Kant
certainly does maintain this, whatever else he may maintain

 

besides. And it is only this theory which I propose to con-T."
sider. I may. perhaps, explain (since I have used ambiguous
language) that I mean by a universal proposition, any

 

 

 

proposition which asserts, either “Allinstances of A have .
the predicate B," I. “Any thing which has the predicate A

igwthepredicate B.” I may also add that I have no doubt
whatever that the instances of such propositions which I have
quoted, namely, all mathematical propositions and the pro-7“
position, “ Every event has a cause,” are, as Kant thought,
synthetic. I do not propose to argue that point. I regard it
as an exceedingly important discovery of Kant’s?a discovery
which would, perhaps, by itself alone, entitle him to the rank
usually assigned him among philosophers.

 

i .'
? .

 




225

@ST’S,,IDEALISMm-i . . , 131. ~

,.‘\My present business, however, is with Transcendental
Idealism.
fhj I propose to consider éqth, whether Transcendental

—-———--——~—.—.w,._...._,. ._- .. .

Idealism gives a satisfactory answer to the question: How are
synthetic propositions g pmom possible? apd whether Trans?
cendental Idealism is true. And for this purpose, I will ﬁrst
try to ire-state, in the simplest possible terms, with less
reference to Kant’s own language than I have hitherto used,
precisely what the question is, to which I doubt whether
Transcendental Idealism is a satisfactory answer. Kant, as I
have said, may be trying to answer other questions as well;
the meaning of his terms is much more complex than that of
those which I shall use: but he certainly does pretend to
have solved the difﬁculty I shall stateYljthat was one of the
difﬁculties in his mindTii—and I only propose to consider that
, part of his doctrine.

(.3: { Well, then, we have the fact that we do make judgments of
the following kind. We believe that: If there he gmy two
groups of objects, of each of which it may be truly predicated
that there are two objects in the group, then it may be truly
predicated of the whole that it is a group of four objects:
this proposition is universal, it concerns all, groups of the
kind named. And we have similar geometrical beliefs. We
believe that: Of any objects of which we can truly predicate
certain geometrical relations, we may also truly predicate some
other different geometrical relation. Finally, we can at least
think, whether we believe or not, that: Every event in time
has been preceded at a certain interval by some other event,
such that, whenever an event of precisely this second kind
exists, an event of the ﬁrst kind will exist after it at exactly
the same distance in time : 3,32,, every event has a cause. These
are all of them universal propositions, they all assert that a
certain predicate, of what Kant calls a forpial kind, attaches to
ﬁg objects to which a certain other predicate attaches And, E"

I 2

%

 

'—

$720

 




1534;2LM,,.1M~~1,}; a. , «,3» vi- ,1. ,J' " ' ' G.E. :1 LIOORE.

being universal, they are all independent of experience in the

following sense: they all assert that certain predicates apply

to things which we never have seen and never shall seed—to

things which nobody has even thought of: they say that

certain predicates apply to all objects of a certain kind, whether

actually experienced or not. This was Kant’s difﬁculty. How

can we know that certain pi'ésteamsnazﬁaéﬁtéwm

WEBBQBFEEEerEEnl-edi How can we" kifdw thamy 7” N" '
“‘uﬁiﬁrsalwpfopo's‘itioﬁﬂis' true? And his answer issBecause' ‘

.,\ > \‘

--vrrﬂ~rz’~" !K'-‘ “W” U.'v v! , ‘

Transcendentaleealism.

(:5. Now what I want ﬁrst to point out is that Kant's question
is ambiguous. He is asking, as if they were one, W19. quite
different questions. l’ygg questions are always asked, Whenever
we ask: How can we or do we [more a thing? for the simple ”
reason that knowledge is a complex concept. When we say
we know a thing, we mean 9.9%. that we believe it, that we have
a certain mental attitude towards the proposition in question,
and also we mean that the proposition is true. Hence, when
we ask: How do you know that? we are asking both : (1) How
do you come to believe it, what is the cause, of your believing
it ? and (2), How do you know that what you believe is true?
What title have you to say that your belief is knowledge and
not mergebelief ? What evidence proves that the object of your
belief is true?

fir: Now it is evident that the second of these questions is far
the more important; and it is evident also that Kant intended
to answer this second question. He wished to explain the
pygmy of universal propositions ; not only how we could come
to believe them, but how they could be valid. Only so, could
he. be contradicting Hume’s sceptical conclusion. Hume
asserted: We have no title to believe that every event has a
cause; and Kant answers: We have a title; I can prove it
true that every event has a cause.

 

 

 

‘nﬂWW‘ﬁ‘ﬂ—‘m‘ w- wow-i "amgnwv

 

 

 

 

 




akasr’s.,xmmusn-~ . 133 -,

A Kant therefore, is trying to prove the validity of universal
propositions—that we have a title to assert them. And he
regards his Transcendental Idealism as giving this title. His
argument is: Every object will have certain formal predicates,
because mind always gives an object that form. I wish to point
out two absolutely conclusive objections to this argument: ~—

‘3’ 5 (1) Rant says: From the fact that mind 18 so constituted
as to give to every object a certain form, we can infer that
every p1esented object will have that form. And this reasoning
is perfectly vard'; the cenclusion does follow from the premiss.
But the ﬁrst objection which I have to make to the Whole

W" —-r --“‘"'-M - . 1' - .

argument IS this, namely, that the p1emiss itself is a universal r
proposition of exactly the same kind which it was proposed,

to 12319“; The premiss is : Mind “@2938 acts in a certain

 

 

way upon, arranges in a certain manner, everything“ which is
presented to it. That is to say, the only evidence which
Kant offers to prove the validity of universal propositions is-—-
merely another universal proposition It is, then, perfectly
certain that he has not done what he professed to do—given us
a title to believe all universal propositions. There is one
universal proposition, at least, which he has simply assumed,
£01 which he has given no reason. If you ask him: How
can you know that mind will alwmys act in that manner? he
has no answer to give. He simply assumes that this proposi-i

tion is true, and that there is no need of evidence to prove
it so. It is certain, on the contrary, that it needs evidence
just as much as 2 :41 2 3:»; 4; if we need a title to believe that
2 3+4} 2 i=1: 4, we certainly need one to believe that mind always
acts in a certain way on every presented object. I do not now
say that this universal proposition of Kant’s 18 untrue; ,I shall
presently try to show that it is. My present point is only this
perfectly certain one: that there is one universal prOposition,
at least, which Kant has given 'us no title to believe; that,
therefore, Kant has 339?» in his own words, “ explained the
possibility of gel} synthetic propositions n ppm-t.”

 




.434 _ . - . G. Eat-MOORE.

“,fButl(2) there is a far more serious objection to Kant’s
argument. I have just said that a certain conclusion will
follow from Kant’s premiss, if once you assume that premiss
to be true; and it is, I think, this fact-Lthe fact that that
conclusion does follow from the premise, which gives to Kant’s
Transcendental Idealism whatever plausibility it possesses.
But what is the conclusion which follows from the premise?
The premiss is: “ Mind always gives a certain form to everything
presented”; and the conclusion which follows from this is:
“ Everything presented will always: have the formal predicates
which mind gives to it.” And what I have now to point out
is that this conclusion, which does follow from Kant’s assump‘:~
tion, is not the conclusion which Kant set out to prove. Let
us remember what the universal propositions were, of which
Kant was going to prove the possibility. One of them was:
The total number of objects in any two groups, of two each,
is 4. And this conclusion will not follow from Kant’s premiss.
What 1131! follow is only this: Whenever we perceive two
groups of 2, then the whole group has the predicate 4 given it
by mind. That is to say, it does not entitle us to assert that
931.31 2 groups of 2 make 4; but only that any two presented
groups make 4 at the time when they are, presented. Kant’s
premise does not entitle him to any more than this: he has
given us no reason whatever to think but that the moment
2 groups of 2 objects cease to be presented, precisely the very
same objects in those same two groups, which had the total
number 4 when presented, may have the total number 7 or 5
or a hundred billions. In other words, Kaut’s premiss does
not prove that 2:+i 2 i=8; 4 in every case: on the contrary, it
allows that more often than not 2 H22 may make 5 or any
other number. That is to say, Kant’s Transcendental Idealism
gives no answer to that scepticism, greater than Hume’s, which
he devised it to answer.

,.. "~— ﬁv‘v‘"

 

 

 

i;
g
§
§:
a
3
i
i

ii“ 1 But, so far, I have given to Kant’s argument the inter?

pretation which is the most favourable for him in one respect: It; :

 

 

 




 

     
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
    
  
  
   
     
  
   

<3. e ‘1’:

O
h
gm.

'4

 

 

 

 

 

 

nur*s---~1nmmsn.~ v *- : 135

I have assumed his principle to be that mind does really give
to objects the formal predicates in question, so that when they
are presented they really and truly have those predicates; I
have allowed that, assuming his premise, it would follow that
2 and 2 are sqmgiimgs 4; and this is certainly the most favour-I4
able interpretation possible: his premiss certainly will not
entitle us to assert that 2 and 2 are always or even generally 4.
But even this conclusion—that 2 and 2 are sometimes 4—will
these predicates to objects, so that, for the moment, they really
belong to them: and I believe that this hypothesis was part of
what was in Kant’s mind. Yet I believe also that he would
never for a moment have entertained such a belief, unless he
had confused it with another, which is quite different and much
more plausible. No one, I think, has ever deﬁnitely maintained
the proposition, that mind actually gives properties to things:
that, e. 91’ it makes one thing the cause of another, or makes 2 and
2i: 4.. 4. What it is plausible to maintain is that the nature of
our mind causes us to think that one thing 18 cause of another,
and to Limit, that 2 and" ... are 4. This, I think, 18 certainly
m of What Kant meant by his Transcendental Idealism;
though he confused it with the different theory that mind gave
objects these properties. Indeed, I think it may be worth
while to point out that this interpretation strictly follows
from one doctrine of Kant’s, the precise meaning of which has
not received all the attention it deserves. Namely, Kant
holds that we cannot know 9.4.2.4.. what properties belong to
“ Things in Themselves.” What I wish to point out is that if
we examine carefully the meaning of the statement, it merely

amounts to this: That we never can know that a thing, 4,311.3 ‘

,iﬂ,_’¢;t$€];f,, really has, even for a moment, any property whatever.
It would follow, therefore, that in Kant’s View, when I think
“ The ﬁngers on this hand are ﬁve, ” I do not really know that
those ﬁngers, as they are in themselves, me ﬁve, and it I don’ t

know that, the only alternative is that, in Kant’s View, I merely .-

‘5

,1, .
i o'
‘11.."

“nu—D. m. - ..

 

$$




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

r
u
'L'
n
..
W
3‘
J
i.
.7
f!
2
1

Jack-1.2L a:

' . -'.“"‘““ ~£-w~zm~ 715774.119; mine...“ any-.222:

«1.36 7 V, . ,. . e E. ' MOORE. '

@777ch them to be 5. A good deal of confusion has, I think,
arisen from the failure to see that the only alternative to the
admission that we do know things as $431.47? 7377. themselves,
is the admission that we have no knowledge at all. We
cannot escape this dilemma by contrasting with “Things-in‘-'
themselves” the “objects of experience”: for, if we know
anything about the objects of experience, then we know what
properties the objects of experience have, .593 they are inthemselves.
Even to know what we think about them is to know a Thing:
in-itself. For if we do know that we think a thing at all, then
we know that our thought, as it is iaitself. really is a thought
of that thing. Thus, in so far as Kant denies any possible
knowledge of “ Things-in-themselves,” there is reason to suppose '
that he does not really think that mind gtyes predicates to
objects, so that even for a moment those objects really have
their predicate: his theory is that we do not know what
properties anything really has itself.

.95“ i Let us then suppose his Transcendental Idealism to mean
that the mind is so constituted as always to make us think that
the objects presented to it have certain predicates. Can he
infer from this premise the validity of universal propositions?
On, the contrary, he cannot now infer that 2 and 2 are 4 even
in any one instance: he can only infer that we shall always
think them to be so. From the fact that we always think a
thing it certainly does not follow that what we think is true.

5’ j I have, then, tried to show that on neither of two possible
interpretations of Kent’s Transcendental Idealism'Will it follow
from that doctrine that universal propositions are valid: on the
ﬁrst, it will only follow that 2 and 2 are sometimes 4, on the
second it will not follow that 2 and 2 are ever 4, but only that
we always think so. And, before that, I pointed out that
Kant’s Transcendental Idealism was itself an universal proposif‘
tion; and that, therefore, even if it proved the validity of any
others (as we now see it doesn’t), it .does not prove the validity
of all.

 

 

 




ft... ’
x»! \

hiaISIDLALISM 137

/\ I now propose to deal brieﬂy with the question: Is this
universal proposition itself-ethe proposition that the mind
always attaches to things certain formal predicates, or makes
us think that things have these predicates—itself tine? And
ﬁrst of all: What reason has Kant to give for it? Here we
ﬁnd, curiously enough, that his chief lesson is the assumed
fact that other universal propositions are true: he infers that
this must be true of the mind, from the.assu1ned fact that
mathematical propositions and the principle of causality are
true. What he says is: They could not be true, arias mind
contributed these predicates; we could have no title to assert
that all things had causes, unless the mind gave them this
predicate. Since, therefore, all things have causes, and 2 and 2
are always 4, the mind must give these predicates. This
reasoning obviously will not prove Transcendental Idealism.

WemfacnthaL—the number oi objecteJIL two groups
of two is 4 we cannot infei that mind caused them to have

that predicate nor from that tact can we evenm infer that mind

‘ " _~‘mw—w-

caused us Mto think that they were 4. There is, theiefore, so

 

7871', no reasonmtever to think Transcendental Idealism true ,
and I am not aware that Kant gives any other reason for it.
He does not profess, by an empirical observation of the mind,
to discover that it always does cause events to have effects or
cause us to think that 2 and 2 are 4. Nor do I know of any
facts tending to show that this is the case. It may be true
that every mental event has some mental cause; and thus
if Transcendental Idealism only asserted that our @361 in
universal propositions has some mental cause, Transcendental
Idealism might possibly be true.‘ But even this is quite
doubtful; I have only to say, as againstone form of the theory,
that I can ﬁnd no evidence that, when I apprehend that 2 and
2 are 4, that apprehension is any more due to the activity of
my mind than when I see the colour of that tablecloth. I can
apprehend that 2 and2 are 4 as passively as I can apprehend

anything. Transcendental Idealism may pOSSibly be true if it ., :4 .

 




 

 

 

 

 

..
l

l

i

,

I

I
3.
it
‘3

‘3
I

: ‘...‘ ".51....“ ‘ . - .
w " - .43; WJMEM :r-‘cxa-a-r mun =1azr am. 12::

,
possibility of experience, if by that
title to assert universal propositions, and not merely that it
asserts our belief in them to have some mental cause.
’7; So much then for Kant’s Idealism, so far as regards the
point, in which, as I said, it differs obviously from that of
Berkeley, namely, the contention that our knowledge of
universal propositions is due to the constitution of our minds.
This appears to me to be the only Idealistic contention for
which Kant oﬁ‘ers any arguments, and I have tried to show
with regard to those arguments (1) that it will not explain the
validity of universal propositions, 323., will not give us any
ground for thinking them true, and (2) that it will not follow

from their validity, and is at best merely a doubtful psycho?“

logical assumption. But I have now to mention certain
idealistic opinions, for which Kant gives no arguments, but
which he certainly holds and which differ in no respect from
those of Berkeley. Kant holds, namely, that spatial and
temporal properties, that sounds and colours, and that causality
exist only in the mind of' him who is aware of them. He holds
that space and time themselves are forms of consciousness, that
sounds and colours are sensations, that causality is a conception.
In all this he agrees with Berkeley; Berkeley also held that
everything of which we are aware is an idea or a notion_—,;a
constituent part, that is, of our own minds. Kant himself has
denied furiously that he does agree with Berkeley ; he says he
holds that we do know that objects really exist in space; and
if he had held that, he certainly would not have agreed with
Berkeley. But I shall try to show that he himself did not
know what he held; that, at least, he certainly held that objects
do not exist in space. It has often been pointed out that at
one time Kant says his difference from Berkeley is that he
asserts the existence of Things-in-themselves, while Berkeley
denies it; and at another time says his difference is that he

w-
‘- \
l 1
_

‘2

'i
"

 

 

 




v ’ . w _ . . NWT‘ . ~.~‘l"u-" 133.4:‘.,:. “2
K"'A;N-T SIDEALISM as a -' '-

asserts the existence of things in space, While Berkeley denies

that. On the ﬁrst point he certainly does not differ from _ _, .
Berkeley, since Berkeley also holds that there do exist things: i ‘ ' ' ,
in-themselves, though he says there are none except God and D‘ ’
other minds. But that matter exists, Berkeley certainly does

deny: and what I have now to show is that Kant denies

it too.

O 3,. Let us consider what is Kant’s theory of experience. He

holds that objects of experience, e.g., chairs. and tables, consist

of the “ matter of sensation,” colours: sounds, and other qualities,
arranged in the “forms” of Space and time, and connected by

the categories or forms of understanding. With regard to

the ﬁrst of these entities, sensations, he never suggests for a

moment that he means by them anything but mental facts:

on the contrary, be repeatedly insists that what he is talking

about is presentations (Vorstellungen), file, when he says “ blue,”

he means thccgpscwusamsofblua, when he says “hard,” he

means $93039?ng ".Ofltﬂ’lfdncss: It is, then, these mental,
purely subjective, elements, out of which, according to him,

when they are arranged in space and time, matter and all
‘material objects are composed; When we perceive an object

in space, what we perceive, according to him, is merely some
sensations of our own arranged in space and time and con.

nected with other things by the categories. That is to say,

the Mrs of what I have called his formal predicates are
exclusively our own sensations: when I say that there are

4 chairs there, he understands me to ‘say'that I have 4 groups

of sensationsﬁit is to my sensations that the predicate 4
attaches. It is plain, then, that the matter of sensation is,
accordggﬁimmmﬁﬂnﬁt‘ir-WW -
that time and space and‘thecategomat
Wiscoyﬁei‘ry'i‘sjlieﬂoften says, that the former are ways in which

the subject is affected, and that the latter are ways in which

it acts. If, then, he did maintain that matter really existed,

" other than as a part of mind, he would be maintaining that _‘T>,
. ~.

.— 9

17/

 

 




... w’ﬂI‘.~v\¢V a“ ... .1“. _..
. ~ n a

- Va»...- msv~¢p W‘P‘ﬁ‘l «r *xfr'vr-I"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.40 e Gsmoow

out of three subjective things, things in my mind, there was
somehow composed one thing that was objective, “not in my
mind. But he never does» maintain this: what he does
maintain is that to say that sensations have spatial predicates
and are connected by the categories, is t/tcmsajme thing as to
say that they exist objectively. And, if this be understood,
it is plain why he thought he disagreed with Berkeley. If to
say that matter exists is simply equivalent to saying that the
categories do apply to it, he does hold that matter exists. But
the fact is that the two statements are not equivalent: I can
see quite plainly that when I think that. chair exists, what I
think is _7t9é_that certain, sensations of mine are connected by

.- the categories. What I do think is that. certain algae of

sensation do really exist in a real space and really are causes

,' and effects of other things. Whether what I think is true is

”A
(’1
’\

‘.. h » ... ...»- .4
’e‘ ”' T: 5 A «‘5 a w .. I }
our" . I f“‘ L‘ ‘ i". \ xi, La)

another question: what is certain is that if we ask whether
matter exists, we are asking this question; we are not asking
whether certain sensations of ours are connected by the
categories. And one other thing is certain too, namely, that
colours and sounds are pot sensations ; that space and time are
pot forms of sense; that causality is not a thought. All these
things are things of which we are aware, things of which we
are conscious; they are in no sense parts of consciousness.
Kant’s Idealism, therefore, in so far as it asserts that matter
is composed of mental elements, is certainly false. In so far
as it asserts this, it differs in no respect from Berkeley’s, and
both are false. Whether or not Kant’s further contention, in
which he also agrees with Berkeley, is also falsefnamely, that
what we really do mean by matter, something 391,: composed
of mental elements, does not existﬁthis, as I say, is quite
another question. W

 

.
4"! “V. " .~ ’
A 1 1_ .‘
1' I" '- ’ ‘ '
ﬂlﬂ§m ~~O*a

“are 1112. -.-,e_-

WM "—u ammunﬂ

 

 

 




 

Source notes for Regan, ed., G. E. Moore:

Source note for "In What Sense..." (MS p. 27):
Originally published in Mng n.s. 6 (April 1897): 235j248.
"In What Sense, If Any, Do Past and Future Time Exist?" was a
contribution to a symposium in which Bernard Bosanquet and
Shadworth H. Hodgson also gave papers.

'99 Source nOte for "Freedom" (MS p. 34):
Originally published in Mind n.s. 7 (April 1898): 1793284.
Source note for "Nature of Judgment" (MS p. 60):
Originally published in ﬂing n.s. 8 (April 1899): 1765193.
SOurce note for "Necessity" (MS p. 78):
Originally published in 8129 n.s. 9 (July 1988): 2893384.

‘yahrSourcenote for "Value of Religion" (MS p. 94): VJ

Originally published in International Journal of Ethics 12

 

(Oct. 1981): 81:98.

' ”-lMSource note for "IdentitY" (MS 9' 112):

Originally published in Proceedings of the Aristotelian

 

Society n.s. 1 (198841981): 103é127.
Source note for "Mr. McTaggart's 'Studies'" (MS p. l37):

Originally published in Proceedings of the Aristotelian

 

\
Society n.s. 2 (1981:1982): 177%214.
_._.__.__.__ f‘ 5-3
Source note for "Experience and Empiricism" (MS p. 175):

Originally published in Proceedings of the Aristotelian

 

Society n.s. 3 (198251983): 88395.
Source note for "Mr. McTaggart‘s Ethics" (MS p. 191):

Originally published in International Journal of Ethics 13

 

. . ‘1
(April 1983). 3415378.

 




w"

’1 .

Cﬂ’Source note for "Kant's Idealism" (MS p. 221):

Originally published in Proceedings of the Aristotelian

av ..

Society n.s. 4 (19953451994): 127440.55}

 




