 

 

 

 

NA TIONAL

 

THE WORLD'S LIVELIEST PAPE

S'. I
If. I
\..
hr. ,
j-X‘
1,7. , ‘
"it; ~ '
*f.‘ ,
,. ,1 .
-,,
'5’;
I
. ~,* ,
, ‘ I I,',z
. K" L
q .
I ..
.. I" '. -
. V ‘ .
I ,- 7;, ..
. . .
' . . ;_
’ I
. ‘
. . .
' ”'2
. . . If;
‘ It ‘
"I
._ . «I '
. .. a
' 4!": '.
O
1

S.

 

Air Is SIoIva Sucked From
Bodies of 200m, AIIiIIIIIIs
I quII Chambers

Each Year in

 

 
 
  
    

IIIIIINIIIlillillllliilllllllmllllHllIiIllumllllllllllllllliNHHHIlilllllIIIll"!lillllllllllllllmllllllllIlllllllilllIlllllllllllI

* ‘k ‘k 1 5c
Ill"I!lllmlilllmlllIIHNUHIIUHIIIHHlllUllIllllllll"NilIHI"MIN"HINIHlIlINlllUINHIHIHHIHI“WIN""lllllillllﬂ
Vol. 37, No. 38, May. 19—25, I963

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A .~—.\, _.r—_‘m-y-—.. M ' h ' '
”MMWW‘,N_A.N~;A~‘;AM -ﬁ.ﬂ4_£,<~y. ._A ‘ W AA A x _k __44‘ A.L-\«,\ A A\ h_~ a ‘

“MN—“ﬂ ”\fw—‘WVNM-Wum , MM " .W

\N
\V'V~\.

NU~ «' A\ _..I_,.

A a A! AA

N~\'\F‘r—

 
    

 

 

_‘ 4“

 

 

 

  




.By DAN WHITE

Hundreds of dogs and cats are dying a horrible death

as you read these words. They are herded together into a _
cage, wheeled into a death chamber and then suffocated
by decompressors which suck all the air out of the cham-

bers and out of the lungs of

the unwanted pets.

They end up as swollen, bleeding corpses, their
tongues bloated to three times their normal size, their
bodies a bleeding mass of fiery red skin.

And it’s being done by the A.S.P.C.A. -—-— the American
Society for the PREVENTION of Cruelty to Animals, in New

YOrk City, and by other humane societies in the U.S.’
The chambers used in New York are put together by a

boil‘ermaking firm in. the city.

An ENQUIRER investigation revealed that about 200,000 un-
.wanted pets 3 year are destroyed in these death chambers.

The chambers came into use about 10 years ago, replacing
execution by gas chambers and lethal injection.

This method of decompression is practically unknown to the

public. Hardly anyone has even
But The ENQUIRER found

seen the death chambers.
one animal lover who saw the

,_ results of the A.S.P.C.A.’s execution boxes.

She is Miss Janet
Stewart, of Great
Neck, Long Island,
N.Y.. one of the few
outsiders who was
ever able to get in

to see the animals being killed.
NIiss Stewart told The EN-
QUIRER: “I had to see tor my-
self how they destroyed animals
after the experience I, went
through with my poor kittens.”

She had taken four newborn
kittens to the A.S.P.C.A. ani-
mal shelter in Glen Cove, Long
Island, to have them “put to
sleep.”

Miss Stewart said: “Naturally
I thought they would be done
away with in the most humane
way possible.”

She gave the kittens to an at-

tendant. She told him she would

wait there until they had been
disposed of and she knew every-
thing was all right.

Fifteen minutes later the at-
tendant returned and told her

the kittens were not quite dead.
Almost an hour later, he came
back again and told ,her she

might as well go home, because

it might take them all night to
die. .

Miss Stewart told The EN-
QUIRER: “I thought it was very
strange that it should take them
so long to die. So I asked him
how they kill the animals. He
replied that they use ‘decom-
pressed air.’

“I had never heard of such
a method, so I told him I would
return the next morning because
I wanted to see that my poor
kittens had been killed properly
and, I hoped, humanely.

“What I saw the next day was
horrible —— almost beyond de-
scription.

.“The kittens were dead, all
right. The attendant had re-
moved them from the refrig-
erated locker where they store
the bodies until they take them
out to cremate them.

7(ittens Are

Ho rrib f
Bloated
8 Blood

“If decompression hadn’t kill-
ed them, the freezer obviously
had.”

Miss Stewart said that the kit—
tens were swollen to twice their
normal size.

Their tongues protruded from
their mouths and they were
bloated to three times their nor-
mal size, as if they were about
to explode.

Their bodies were a fiery red.
It looked like all the blood had
been sucked up to the surface
of the 'skin of the animals.

“Blood was Spurting out of
their bodies.

“It was gruesome,” said Miss

 

 

NATIONAL
ENQUIRER

Page 14

A

 

Stewart. “After seeing those

 

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
  

TORTU CHAMBERS into which dogs and cats are wheeled to die. This photo was taken

 

secretly by an ENQUIRER photographer at the A.S.P.C.A. in Brooklyn, N.Y. —— after The .
ENQUIRER was told by officials that photographs were not allowed to be taken.

Spurts From Their Bodies, '
Says [ye witness

bloated corpses in Long Island.
I decided that I would some;
how have tosee for myself just
how the. A.S.P.C.A. destroys
these mlserable and helpless
creatures.”

Miss Stevrar later managed
to see hOWt animals were
killed in the big A.S.P.C.A. shel-
ter in the. Bronx, N.Y.

She $31.51: “What I saw was
disgustlng. 'It seemed to take

 

were about 4

ages to ﬁll upeach cage -— theyl
feet long and 2:

feet wide with condemned

dogs and cats.

“They would just cram them
into the four-wheel wire cages.
The animals were whimpering,
yelping and screeching pitifully
as they waited and waited for
the cage to be packed full.'

“They shoved all sizes of ani-
mals into the same cage — big
:dogs, little dogs, puppies, even
,‘tiny kittens.

“They were all squashed to-
gether.

 

 

“I don’t know how they could
even breathe as they waited
there for hours before they were
slaughtered. . ‘

“When they turned the com-
pressor on, the motor made such
a loud, terrifying sound you’d
think the noise alone would have
frightened them to death.”

Then Miss Stewart stood by,
as the valves were opened and
the air was pulled out of the
chamber.

She watched in horror.

After 15 minutes she saw an
attendant remove the bodies of
the animals.

Miss Stewart said: “It was

(Continued on next page)

Whimperig Animals Are

Put in
Slowly

 

C

.ambers and Air Is

S‘Cked From Them

.* .3.. 4..., -

(,-‘-i-.~>;\[ug+ L”. "a" .

 

 
    
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

 

    

 

v

 

_— ——., v v ‘—

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 
    
 

,
. "V‘

. ays ,Arthu

 

;,- ‘ But not "eVeryOne «agrees wi
Amundsen. '

for breath, fall to their sides

~ this death by decompression for

have to take the dog to the

<_ Wm.—V~—.-—_——74 i ___w___ ‘r—w_.__v.74
WWW—1—

19, 1963

(Continued from preceding page

just like what I saw in th
A.S.P.C.A.

.She said she noticed that the
tiny kittens and puppies were

not even dead.

_ “Even though they were un-
r2, conscrous, they were still mov-
ing and breathing. But they
took them out anyway, along

shelter in Long Is-
land. The bodies were horribly
bloated, particularly the small
ones.” —-

Young

)

e

 

with the others, and threw them

still alive into the refrigerated

j— lockers.” ..
One ex-A.S.P.C.A.

He, told The ENQUIRER:

“Sometimes I used to shove 20

or 30 dogs and cats .a day into
the decompression chamber. It
wolhld make me sick to my stom-
ac .

,“I had often ,wondered‘ just
why they use this method, in-

'_ stead 0f gas or deadly injec-'

tions, which must be more hu-
mane. ,

“Then, one. day, theysent a
memorandum around telling the
employes why this system had
been approved. It was economi-
cal, the memo said. No other
reason wasgiven.” . '
,The A.S.P.C.A. in New York
City claims that the decompres-

sion chambers are humane.

“It is a fast, relatively pain-

less way of killing ianirnals,”_

r Amundsen, "'dir

actor
V: ‘ In 5 7 § A

  

   

0 per

   
   
 

    
    

  

   

An official of the American
Veterinary Medical Assn. told
The ENQUIRER:

“When the compressors sud-
denly suck all the air out of the
chambers and the lungs of the
unwanted pets, the animals gasp

and go into convulsions.
“We strongly disapprove of

animals.

“The animals may suffer ex-
cruciating pain.”

Another animal lover who
thinks that animal decompres-
sion chambers should be banned
is Dr. Bernard Wasserman, who
runs an animal- hospital in
Brooklyn, N .Y. . _

He told The ENQUIRER: “De-
compression is really an awful
way of killing the poor animals.
They are put through needless
suffering when they could easily
be put away painlessly.

“Like most veterinarians I use
injections of sodium pentathol to
put them away painlessly.

“Once someone came into my
hospital with a dog that had to
be destroyed but the owner said
he couldn’t afford to pay for
the injection and that he would

A.S.P.C.A. ,

“I knew all about the decom-
pression chamber the A.S.P.C.A.
used and how cruel it was, so
I told the man I would give
his dog an injection for free ra-
ther than have it suffer~ by
being killed like that.”

Even the A.S.P.C.A.’s Mr.

 

. employe, _

who requested that his name not

' .be used, quit -his job in one of

the society’s animal shelters be- ‘
cause he couldn’t keep on kill-

mg dogs and cats like this.

   
  
           
  

u.-

W'lDE-EYED, unwante‘d" dog
, A.S.P.C.A. in Brooklyn, NY.

0095 & Calif»

. _ _. n _ I
, . . 1 i ..-.:j'
. - . ». - a.“ ..
,, - .
‘
\.
.

      

 

ours-

Amundsen agreed that 'it is pos-
sible for small kittens and- pup-l
pies to live through the death
chamber and suffer even longer
“if the, decompression unit was
not properly operated.”

Officials of the New York
A.S.P.C.A., 'which operates only
in New York City and the sur-
rounding suburban areas, stated
that laSt year over 94,000 ani-
mals were killed by this method
in their area. '

Many other humane societies
in the US. refuse to use the
decompression chamber.

“But there are approx1mately
200 to 300 of these chambers
being used all over the United
States,” says Fred Myers, ex-
ecutive director of the Humane
Society of the United States, in
Washington,, DC. -

He added: “I have seen lots
of animals destroyed in them in
various parts of the country. It
is not a pleasant sight.”

The death chambers also bo-
ther animal lover Miss Eleanor
Seiling, of'New York City, a
volunteer worker who has help-
ed' various animal organizations
for about six years. She told
The ENQUIRER:

“The problem. is in the
‘holding’ cage, where the ani~
mals are put, to be ready for

Alive   A  1~ 

  
 

waits his turn:

_ _ or
Turn " to s Be

the decompressmnysprocess.

 

 

 

 
   

l

Are ~  Still ’

 

   

   
 

It is operated by placing the
animal or animals in the chamber,
locking the door, and starting the
pump. In about 8‘ seconds, the air ‘
becomes fogged in the“ chamber;
clearing starts at about 12 seconds.
At this. time, the vacuum reaches
about 27 inches of Water. Some une
easiness and awareness may be

 
   
   
   
 

. fights take place.”

' One woman animal worker
- who is FOR the decompression
chambers is Miss Helen Jones,
executive director of The Na-
tional Catholic Society for Ani-
mal Welfare, Washington, DC,
who told The ENQUIRER: ', p
“The decompression method ’
of putting unwanted pets to
death is ‘one‘ of the most humane
methods when the machines are
'. properly made. ~ ,

“Injections are all very well“,
but when one is faced with a
large; number of unwanted cats
and dogs, the decompression
method is quicker.” . ' _

Miss Jones confirmed that 2
the decompression method start:
ed about 10 years ago.

It was based on thecompres-
sion — or‘high altitude .— cham;
bers used to train plane, pilots
and outer space fliers. .

But although Miss Jones be,- " , J ,_. ,
lieves the doomed animals d0\ OFFICIAL REPORTz‘Extract'
not suffer in the decompression - fin;

chambers, the United States Air- - from the American Vete

Force has found that fliers ,DO '
sometimes feel pain during tests -
,rs , '

       
   
 
 

into opisthotonos resembling the r_
convulsions of s'trychnine poison-
ing. No outcry is Usually heard ,
above thesounds of the equipment,‘
but foam appears through the open
mouth of the animal, and it usually
defecates and urinates. The skin
rapidly becomes bloated, obscuring
the natural Outlines of .the animal’s
body. A, vacuum’of about 29 inches ,
of water is maintained for 5 to 10
minutes, depending on the operator,"
Recovery may ocCur. if the shorter:
time is used. Reports'indicate that
young kittens and pups may ‘ re-
cover. even after 10 minutes of
maximum negative pressure. The
pathologic effects of explosive de-
compression are quite well deer
scribed inthe-literatureF

Advantages and Disadvantages.
'—-This method is rapid, is suitable
- for large numbers of animals, and
the ,equipment is inexpensive: to
operate, but the-initial costs of in--
stallation. are high. It . resents little

 
   
  

  
  
      
   
   
 
    

    
     
    
 

     
 

  
    
   
  
 

9-
ml
0
’1-
4.?
‘3“:
.CD

    
 
  
  
      
 

- -.‘m t
L
, a
. _.
_ u
. x
. vs, . “r-
:_..... rl --
.,.
. 1-
I- » "
K" . r"
y .. ‘ . ’ca .
‘1
1
t
C

.

       

The Expo

SE, ayton, 0hi0;~*sa1d> thate‘beis so the ‘-"tlie: come
- men taking. tests in the: eham: ”“' * p '; '. I - ._
bers had “on occasion” eXperia a re noLfiaghtened by the in!”

enced pain. ‘ 2 _ .

Ered Myers, executive direc-
tor of the Humane society of
the United States, Washington,

'. - D.C., told The ENQUIRER:

, e “I don’t believe there is pain,
‘ : :4 ,_ , but unfortunately no/animal _-has
ever been able to tell us.”

But one thing The ENQUIRER,
found out was that even the
expertmanufacturers of the de-
compression chambers recom-
mend that a small version of
‘ MW. ‘ the execution box be used for
Some of thesggt-anlmals are kittens and'puppies.
left too long togéﬁgr -.-—‘some,- This is because some young

‘y are over- animals can come out still alive

d fearful from the larger chambers.

  
 
 
 
  

        

   

   
 

S

revealed that_in“New York City,

 
 

tiny animals. And .it had. NOT
put the noisy motor in a Sepa-‘
rate, room. "

One manufacturer. of death

    
  
 
 
 

  

  

“Many of these,
big that animals
dled- in and left; '

the cage is full (1 ready for

pany, of Los Angeles, Calif;,«ex.-
plained why [the smaller box is
needed for kittens and puppies.”
An official said: “Animals.
past 21/2 months, whose breath- ,
mg systems are developed, be-
come unconscious _in' one of our
chambers in about 45, seConds.
“But we recommend a 5-min-
ute holding or -safety period so
that-no animal could possibly
regain consciohsness. '

“On the side of our large
chamber thereis mounted a-
small chamber, 16 inches by 30
inches, which is used for new-
born animals. '

“Because of their undeveloped
breathing systems, it is neces-
sary to give them a. longer
holding period than for mature
animals. We recommend a
. holding‘period of 15 minutes for
kittens and puppies.

“Newborn puppies or .kittens
do become unconscious in the
garger chamber, but they do not
1e. ’ ‘

When The ENQUIRER asked
Colonel Edmund Rowen, director
of Humane Services for New

  
 

(

times for hours. ,
crowded.~ I und'

._ .4.

   
       
 

  

 
     
  

Kﬁlﬁ .1 ea: .. .-:-:-:-:~.\‘e¢-.
rown after

    
  

1.

   
 

   

    

 

 

   
   

  

REFRIGERA Which dogs and cats are th ,

eing put thro '§L__.decompression chambers of the Blighlglsit (ﬁstlfeCAAé’P gift, HE
A.S.P.C.A. in 2,’,.Yr.’.'Th'e youngerammals that have . - - - - -.S de-
not died in the d :_ Ssmn chambers final'l'yfgiveh up their (Continued on page 22)
painful str , ' ,ﬁ akin-Illa ree-zers,“ IS p oto was NATIONAL . “ ‘
also taken 3331: : lyigﬁQUlRE‘R photographer. Page 15 .

. ENQUIRER

  

 

ary Medical Assn-’sgstudyom ,
the decompression.chhmber - 2
. method,Otsdestru‘ctiom-- : ~

But ‘E-NQUIRER:investigation' , -=

ing T [trough

_ \

  
 
 
 
     
   
    

the A.S.P.C.A. was [Nor using, 'f
a" smaller death chamber for. 5 ‘

chambers, the" Euthanair Com~ "

 
      

r<
.-.‘-

      
 
    
   
    
        
         
      
      
        
 
    
     
 
 

.1 <’@' (“-35,“-

   
 
    
     
    
     
   
     
        
  
    
     
   
    
 
 
  

  
      
   
    
       
      
      
      
     
       
   
      

  
   

 
  
 
 
  
      
  

  

‘ .

     
    

  
      
       
     
    
        
       
      
  
         
  

  
  
       
    
     
      
   
 
   
   
   
    
     
    
      
      
    
     
     
      
      
     
    

   
     
    




 

    
  
      
 

(Cruelty
. Retards
Medical
Research

 

THE HUMANE SOCIETY
HSUS OF THE UNITED STATES
Washington 36, D.C.




 

 

 

F (IRE WORD

The Humane Society of the United States
advocates enactment by Congress of H.R.
4856, a bill introduced by Rep. William J.
Randall of Missouri, designed to protect
vast numbers of animals from cruelty and
suffering now inﬂicted on them in research

laboratories.

This folder is devoted exclusively to one
facet of the many reasons why Mr. Randall’s
bill should become law—the fact that misuse
and abuse of animals in laboratories actually
retards the progress of scientiﬁc medicine and

is dangerous to public health and welfare.

For more general information about the
use of animals in research or about other

aspects of the principles and activities of hu-

mane societies, the reader is invited to write
to The HSUS at 1145 Nineteenth SL, N.W.,
Washington 36, D. C.

 

 

 

75)

{91>

ht




Animals As Experimental
Material

American medical research uses some
175,000,000 vertebrate animals every year.
Eminent medical scientists have testiﬁed that
modern medical research is fundamentally
based on animal-using experiments.

Yet under even the best possible circum-
stances, using the most advanced scientiﬁc
controls, animals are a grossly inexact experi-
mental material. Scientists are using virtually
the whole. gamut of animal species, from
Aardvark to Zebra, in tens of thousands of
experiments annually. No two of the hundreds
of animal species return identical reactions to
any environment or experimental procedure.
No two animals within any species are
identical.

No animal is even today what it was yester-
day or will be tomorrow.

Inject a drug into ten apparently very
similar mice and you will get, in some de-
gree, ten different reactions because none of
the ten mice is identical with any of the others.
Perform identical experimental surgery on
ten dogs and, because of physical differences
alone, some may die while others survive. The
differences may be due to variations in genetic
qualities, past medical history, immediate
physical and nervous condition.

Experimentation on animals never returns
absolute knowledge, only possibilities or,
sometimes, probabilities.

Cruelty Distorts Experiments

In ordinary laboratory practice the in-
herent inadequacies of animals as test tubes

2

 




 

and as stand-ins for the human species can
and do become highly magniﬁed by cruelty
and neglect.

Cruelty, of course, can be of many kinds
and degrees. Probably relatively few of the
more than 200,000 persons engaged in animal-
using research institutions are deliberately
cruel, in any ordinary sense of the word. But
cruelty is common in such institutions, none-
theless. And cruelty dangerously warps much
of what is called research.

Consider the following statement by Robert
C. Bay, D.V.M., formerly veterinarian in
charge of a large colony of dogs of the radio-
biology laboratory of the College of Medicine,
University of Utah. Dr. Bay resigned from
his University post because he was forbidden
to euthanize dogs needlessly suffering great
pain from irradiation.

“It is extremely disgusting to me,” said Dr.
Bay, “speaking from the scientiﬁc side, that
some animals are so needlessly wasted in bio-
logical teaching demonstrations and in actual
research simply because the condition of the
animal is so deplorable (physically and emo-
tionally) at the time it is used. I feel ever
so strongly, and have seen it demonstrated so
vividly many times, that much of the research
that is published on animals isn’t worth the
paper it is printed on, to use a trite phrase.
This is true simply because the animals were
not ‘physiologically sound’ at the time the
experimentation was carried on.”

Implied in Dr. Bay’s scientiﬁc indignation
are many types of cruelties that reduce ani-
mals to “deplorable” physical and emotional
conditions. The HSUS has elsewhere described
and documented many such cruelties. (Write
to The HSUS for a booklet, Proof of Cruelty

to Laboratory Animals.)

3.

 

 

(7Q

3-30

CT“




Dr. Mark L. Morris, recent President of
the American Veterinary Medical Association
and himself head of a foundation that spon-
sors animal-using research, told a national
assemblage of scientists in 1961:

“Research conducted on malnourished,
diseased and parasite-ridden laboratory ani-
mals will only continue to add misinformation
to our medical literature, invalidate research
results, increase the cost of research and inter-
fere with production.”

It should be noted that Dr. Morris was
discussing, with his fellow scientists and intra-
murally, a condition that exists.

And Dr. Morris, like Dr. Bay, was sup-
porting the central thesis of this booklet: neg-
lect and mistreatment of laboratory animals
retards medical research and is dangerous to
the public health and welfare.

The famous Dr. Clive McCay, Professor in
the Department of Animal Husbandry of Cor-
nell University, has this to say about inhumane
conﬁnement and neglect of animals:

“No attention is paid to breed or past his-
tory (of animals). The dogs often get little
or no exercise . . . Often little attention is paid
to internal or external parasites . . . Such re-
search beneﬁts neither man nor dogs because
it clutters the literature with false and mis-
leading conclusions.”

Dr. Perez-Alvarez, of the National Institute
of Cardiology of Mexico, has written (Sur-
gery, Feb., 1958):

“From a practical standpoint, 100 per cent
of pound dogs must be considered infested
by intestinal worms and ﬂeas. If the infesta-
tions are pronounced the animals are apt to
be anemic, and even if their general appear-

4

 




 

ance is not bad these animals are not good
subjects for experimentation.”

The US. Department of Health, Education
and Welfare says in a booklet, The Dog in
Medical Research, that “the presence of dis-
ease and especially pulmonary infections to
which dogs are susceptible may inﬂuence the
result (of experiments) . . . Latent distemper
which ﬂares up following inhalation anesthesia
can destroy the scientiﬁc value of an
experiment.”

(A large portion of American research
laboratories use dogs and cats from public
pounds and relatively few provide any pre-
tense of veterinary care or any treatment for
mange, parasites, distemper, feline enteritis
or hepatitis.)

Similar testimony by eminent research
authorities could be cited almost endlessly.
Neglect of animals, inhumane conﬁnement of
animals in dirty and crowded quarters, ex-
periments that put animals under continued
or repeated stress—all cause what the Presi-
dent of the respected Markle Foundation once
called “shoddy research” done for “shoddy

reasons.”

Ignorance and Laziness
As Cruelty

If a painful experiment requires use of only
one animal but a researcher uses two, the
inﬂiction of pointless suffering on the second
animal is cruelty. If the second animal is
subjected to pain merely because the experi-
menter is ignorant of proper statistical design
of experiments, or because the experimenter
is too lazy to do what should be done, the
cruelty indicates that bad research is being
done.

:33:

Sax-x

BLGGtﬂiHI—la




American laboratories are almost univer-
sally guilty of this kind of cruelty—and of
bad research. Scores of solemn articles pub-
lished every year, reporting experimental use
of hundreds of thousands of animals and pur-
porting to reveal new scientiﬁc discoveries,
are worthless. Worse, they are positively
harmful because they state false conclusions
as fact and so inevitably mislead or retard
the work of more careful experimenters.

Medical research also is retarded, on a
large scale and seriously, by incompetent ex-
perimenters who are unable to derive maxi-
mum potential information from animal-using
experiments through use of statistical analysis
techniques.

Many authorities have attested the truth of
these statements and deplored the resultant
waste of money, manpower, animals, and re-
search facilities.

A group of eminent biostatisticians headed
by Dr. Edward C. Bryant, former professor
of statistics at the University of Wyoming and
the University of Arizona, last year completed
an exhaustive analysis of a sample scien-
tiﬁcally representative of 7,180 articles pub-
lished in scientiﬁc journals in 1961, all in-
volving use of animals in experiments. Here
is their own summary of their 32-page report
(a copy of the full report will be sent free to
anyone requesting it from The HSUS) :

“Westat Research Analysts drew a sample
of 4,826 articles from Index Medicus for
1961. Of these, 253 were found to report
research involving experimental animals that
was conducted and published in the United
States. It was found that 173 were reported
completely enough to permit some judgment
concerning the adequacy of their statistical
design, 53 failed to report numbers of ani-
mals used, and 27 were of such a nature that

6

 




 

their validity could be judged only on medi-
cal "grOunds rather than on statistical grounds.
These classes are referred to as Type I, Type
II, and Type III, respectively.

“After careful analysis of the 173 pub-
lished research articles of Type I it was con-
cluded that 129 of them, or 74.6 per cent,
could have, by use of proper statistical de-
sign, employed reduced numbers of animals
with essentially no loss in statistical signiﬁ-
cance. From this result it was estimated that
between 69 and 80 per cent of the Type I
articles in the population describe research
work in which the number of animals em-
ployed is excessive for the level of signiﬁ-
cance attained. Many of these could also be
criticized on the grounds of inadequate or
improper analysis of the data. In fact, only
4.0 per cent of the 173 articles were judged
to have been both well analyzed and well de-
signed. When one considers as statistically
deﬁcient the articles which did not report
numbers of animals, 217 of 226 experiments
employed inadequate or inappropriate statisti-
cal design, analysis, or reporting procedures.

“The analysts who reviewed the published
articles were asked to make estimates of per
cent saving in animals which might have been
effected by proper statistical design. The
overall estimate for the 173 articles reviewed
indicated that at least 23 per cent saving
could have been effected. In the judgment
of the reviewers no more than 40 per cent
could have been saved by appropriate sta-
tistical design.

“The published research indexed in Index
Medicus in 1961 covers approximately 137,-
000 published articles of which approxi-
mately 7,180 are estimated to report results
of experimentation with animals which was
conducted and published in the United States.
On the basis of our survey we estimate that
the total number of animals employed in
experiments of Type I is 1,398,000. This

7

k AAA ‘1‘

 

 




 

 

estimate applies only to those experiments
that have been reported in publications listed
in the 1961 edition of the Index Medicus and
that were in a form permitting statistical
criticism. A large number of animal-using
experiments, published and unpublished, are
not included in this estimate because of the
restrictions placed upon Type I experiments
and the limitations imposed in deﬁning the
population. Our estimate of the total num-
ber of animals employed in Type III experi-
ments is 30,500. All estimates of numbers
of animals in the population are subject to
high sampling error (see Appendix 4) be-
cause of the wide range in number of animals
employed in individual experiments.”

It should be noted that the experiments re-
ported in the articles classiﬁed as Type II
and Type III by Dr. Bryant and his associates
were indubitably inferior in technique and
worth even to those of Type I. Articles so
poorly prepared that they defy analysis by
other competent scientists are hardly worth
publication—not to mention Wholesale suffer-
ing by animals.

C. W. Hume, British philosopher and scien-
tist, made the same point succinctly in The
Lancet (leading British medical journal),

Nov. 23, 1957:

“The theory of statistics enables an experi-
ment to be planned so that the maximum of
information may be obtained from a limited
number of observations, and conversely it
serves to minimize the number of observations
required for a given conclusion.”

Hume cites an example from British med-
ical literature in which 50 mice were used
to test an antibiotic and shows how use of
only 10 would have led with equal statistical
certainty to the same conclusions. The labor
and money expended on tests with the re-

8

 




 

dundant 40 mice were wasted. Multiply this
example by thousands (and that is the proper
order of magnitude) and it becomes obvious
that the cruelty implicit in use of more ani-
mals than are scientiﬁcally needed is retard-
ing medical research by wasting badly needed
funds and facilities while cluttering the litera-
ture of research with invalid publications.

It should be noted, too, that the waste
(cruelty) unquestionably is immensely greater
than can he revealed by the analytical sta-
tistics of Bryant, Hume and other critics.
Statistical analysis cannot reveal the hidden
waste and false conclusions caused by use
of diseased, parasite-ridden and malnourished
animals as reported by Bay, Morris, and
other conscientious scientists.

Remembering that at the very best animals
are imperfect, inexact experimental material,
the unscientiﬁc work being reported by hun-
dreds of “researchers” must appal every per-
son who hopes for maximum progress toward
prevention or cure of cancer, heart disease,
mental illness, and all the other great killers
and afflictions of mankind.

Fch e ral Lu W Ca n Improve

3'01" '3' Research

The. HSL’S would not want to be understood
as implying that even a very large m1nor1ty
of research scientists are incompetent or Wll-
fully cruel.

But some of the more than 200,000 persons
emploVEd by institutions and laboialtorles
' I o . 0 re

using animals 111 research unquestiona y a

l)()tl].

ery other walk of life, there

ust as in ev
J lazy, callous to

are research workers who are

9

 




 

 

suffering, emotionally disturbed, inadequately
trained. There are those who are more con-
cerned about next year’s ﬁnancial grant from
the tax-payers than about this year’s progress
in medical research.

HR. 4856, a bill introduced in Congress
by Rep. William J. Randall of Missouri,
would improve medical research by putting
reasonable, moderate controls on such people.
The proposed law would require recipients of
Federal research grants to use scientiﬁc sta-
tistical techniques when experimenting with
animals and to use the minimum number re-
quired. The law would require that animals
be given humane housing and care. The law
would forbid repetitive “demonstrations” that
amount to mere boondoggling—time killers
for people who have no true research abilities.

Every provision of HR. 4856 would op--
erate to improve medical research, prevent
cruelty, save public funds now being wasted.

Text of the Randall bill and an explanatory
folder will be sent free to anyone requesting

them of The HSUS.

10

 




Would you like to have further information?

You are invited to request additional copies of this folder or copies of other HSUS publi-
cations, both about laboratory animals and other aspects of animal welfare and humane
education. Use this form or merely send a postcard or note. Individual copies of small pub-
lications are free; we hope for a contribution to cover the cost of large quantities.
PLEASE SEND:
........ copies of ”Cruelty Retards Medical Research” ____________ copies of text of HR. 4856 (2¢ each)

(cost—2¢ each)

. . ____________ copies of ”Animals in a Research Laboratory”
copies of “There Ought to be a Law” (Illustrated (320-page book, recounting in documentary
folder explaining H.R. 4856—cost, 2¢ each)

form the routine of use of animals in a single
copies of ”Animals in Research” (32 p. booklet medical school—$3.50 each)
analyzing statistical fallacies in much current

copies of ”Proof of Cruelty in Laboratories”
research—cost 10¢ each) (cost—10¢ each)
NAME ...............................................................................................................................................
STREET _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
CITY-STATE _________________________________________________________ { ............................................................................

 




 

WZWPP—V— nz< mW-n—n—Dn-




 

A MORAI. PRINCIPLE ‘

We want to tell you about a really terrible cruelty
to animals that almost certainly occurs often in your
neighborhood and quite possibly even in your own‘
home. We think that if you know what is happen-
ing, you will want to help us stop it. You can, easily.

Perhaps you don’t like to hear about cruelties.
Most people don’t. But the cruelty that this leaﬂet
discusses is a product of thoughtlessness and ig-'
norance. It can be ended if a large number of kindly
people are better informed than they now are.

Oveta Culp Hobby, former U. S. Secretary of
Health, Education and Welfare, hit the nail on the
head when she said that the three classical little
mOnkeys who “see no evil, hear no evil, speak no
evil,” are “teachers of immorality.” Mrs. Hobby
argued that it is the moral duty of a good citizen
to inform himself about what is evil in our society
and to speak out against it.

So—will you read this leaﬂet, pass it along, and
do your part?

THE CRUELTY

Simply stated, the problem is that in the United
States we are breeding about 35,000,000 puppies
and 50,000,000 kittens every year.

But that is too simple a statement; it doesn’t re-
veal the result.

The result is cruelty and suffering—terrible,
nightmarish, almost indescribable cruelty and suf-
fering on a scale so huge that it staggers the
imagination.

Consider the problem.

There are only 48,000,000 families in the United
States, according to the latest census.

But there are at least 90,000,000 dogs and
cats in America. And puppies and kittens are
being born, while you read this, at the rate of
nearly a quarter-million a day, 10,000 an
hour, 165 a minute.

It IS obvious that America cannot provide decent
homes for all these animals—or homes of any kind.

America doesn t.’

 

 

 

»_H

,9 _

 

 




 

 

h! , 4*

9‘A_..

 

An analysis of the statistics compels the con-
clusion that some 25,000,000 of all kittens and pup-
pies that are born in the United States are more or
less promptly killed (or dumped somewhere to die).

The surplus animals that get killed quickly are
the lucky ones—but don’t imagine, unless you want
to be like the three “immoral” little monkeys, that
the killing always is quick and painless. The hu-
mane societies and the better city pounds use
humane methods but in many places the slaughter
is done with lead pipes, clubs, agonizing poison,
shotguns, or obsolete gas chambers in which tem-
peratures rise past 200 degrees.

The unlucky animals are those that are denied
homes, but “permitted” to live.

In, the United States, at this moment, there are
more than 15,000,000 homeless dogs and 25,000,000

homeless cats.

The nation’s humane societies and pounds
are literally drowned in the ﬂood of these ani-
mals. Taxpayers and private philanthropy
are spending more than $50,000,000 a year
on rescue and control work but are unable
to offer even the mercy of a painless death to
more than a small fraction of the homeless
animals.

Records of any city pound or humane society in
the country will disclose how evil this situation is.
The vast surplus makes animals “cheap.” Even
normally kind people are affected by this fact.
People who own purebred dogs that cost $50 al-
most always call a veterinarian when the dog is ill
or injured. People who have dogs that cost $2
(or nothing), very often let the animal die of dis-
ease without medical help “because the Smiths will
give us one of their puppies.” People who own
$50 dogs are likely to feed carefully balanced diets.
People with $2 dogs are more prone to feed what-
ever is handy. People with $50 dogs take the dog
with them when they move. People with $2 dogs
very, very often abandon the dog to shift for itself.

The fact is, really, that there is no such thing as
a two-dollar dog, or a free cat. If you have a dog
or cat, and it lives to be ten years old, experts
estimate that the bare essentials of keeping it, with
no extras, will cost you $736.00. Even if you
abandon it, it will cost your county or city or hu-

 




 

mane society nearly ten dollars to do what is neces-
sary to save it from a miserable, lingering death.
People overlook these hidden costs, because they ac-
cumulate slowly and imperceptibly over the years,
or are paid in the form of taxes, but they are there
all the same. '

But many people ignore the facts and day and
night the homeless, harried, helpless animals are
hunted and killed! Day and night they suffer. The
condition is a blot on a humane nation and it is
a huge burden on taxpayers and on private philan-
thropy.

WHOSE FAULT IS THIS?

 

The cruelty and the suffering are a result of
breeding too many animals.

The responsibility, therefore, rests squarely
upon people who breed puppies and kittens
that they cannot or will not keep and hu-
manely maintain.

That statement indicts, we realize, very many
people who genuinely love animals and who would
go to great lengths to prevent any animal from
suffering. It may even apply to you. Perhaps, at
some time, you have allowed your female dog or
cat to bear one or more litters. Perhaps you care-
fully and conscientiously found homes for all the
infant animals. Perhaps you have checked and you
know that every animal of the litter still is living
a comfortable life. So your conscience is easy.

But your conscience shouldn’t be easy. The fact
is that you added to the surplus of dogs and cats.
Your litter found homes, but other litters didn’t.
So long as there are more dogs and cats than we
can provide homes for, any litter of puppies or
kittens is surplus.

It is like the childhood game of “pussy wants a
corner.” No matter how the homes are shifted
about, always there are animals that are left without
a corner. It is the surplus that causes the cruelty
and suffering.

The only reason that the present rate of breeding
does not absolutely inundate the nation with cats
and dogs is that owners, public agencies and private
philanthropies are killing the helpless animals al-

I!
ll

H-‘r-S N ﬁ.ﬂ n1

<0)

Hal-h"!

t!

21300de

'1'.

0.6/2




most (but not quite) as fast as they are born.

Under these circumstances, the killing is unavoid-
able and even humane in effect. But the breeding
of millions upon millions of animals that are fore-
doomed to slaughter—or prolonged suffering—is
not humane. The responsibility for the cruelty rests
upon anyone who allows breeding of animals that
he cannot keep and humanely maintain.

IT CAN BE STOPPED

The American people can stop the cruelties of
surplus animal breeding at any time. Only the
will is needed. ‘

 

All experts are agreed that the entire, ter-
rible problem can be solved by Spaying of
female dogs and cats that should not breed,
or by their careful control at the periodic
times when they are in heat (ready to breed).

The only certain method of preventing the
average female dog or cat from breeding is
to have her spayed.

Spaying, when done by a veterinarian skilled in
the operation, is relatively simple. Only a small
incision is required, the operation takes only 15 or
20 minutes, and very few animals show any sign
of even slight discomfort after the operation. A
general anaesthetic is used so there is no pain.

A spayed female dog or cat is permanently re-
moved from the danger of breeding. She has no
inclination to wander from home. She is likely to
be more even-tempered and affectionate than an
unspayed female. She is also likely to be happier
and safer.

True, the operation costs money. The approxi-
mate average cost is $15 for a dog, $10 for a cat.
It may seem a great deal to pay out in a lump
sum. But remember, any one who keeps a dog or
cat is spending an average of at least $73 a year
on it, whether he realizes it or not. The ten or
ﬁfteen dollars for spaying can do a lot to protect
this investment, as well as to reduce the misery and
suffering of the homeless and unwanted cats and
dogs that crowd the country.

There is an old superstition that spayed females
get fat, or are indolent. Dog and cat experts agree

 




 

that this is simply not true. Some dogs and cats,
like some people, tend to get over-weight if their
diet is uncontrolled. A spayed female is not differ-
ent, in this respect, from unspayed females.

For various reasons (some of them good), some
people do not want to have their female pets
spayed. The owner of a commercial kennel of pure-
bred dogs, for example, will not want his prize
females spayed.

An unspayed female dog or cat can be controlled,
so that breeding will be controlled. If you wish to
do your part to reduce our national surplus of dogs
and cats, without having your female pet spayed,
you must understand the physiology involved and
you must be much more careful than most people
seem willing to be.

Female dogs and cats “come into heat” twice or
three times a year, normally. The periods may,
however, be irregular. You must learn to recognize
these periods and even to anticipate them. And
while your pet is in heat you must conﬁne her,
beyond chance of escape, where no male can get
to her.

The ﬁrst sign that your pet is in heat will be
a slight discharge from the external female organ.
The discharge increases for several days and the
external organ swells, sometimes to several times
normal size. In dogs the period lasts about three
weeks, in cats slightly more than two weeks.

Your female dog or cat will imperiously demand
to be let out during this period. 'It will be hard——
many people ﬁnd it impossible—to resist the pres-
sure. That is why all experts recommend spaying.

Whether you spay, or try control, the im-
portant thing is the realization that if you
allow the breeding of more kittens and pup-
pies that will add to the surplus, you actively
contribute to terrible suffering.

WHAT YOU CAN DO

 

You can help, immediately, to decrease and ulti-
mately end the suffering that results from the
surplus breeding.

If you own a female dog or cat, of course, the

 




ﬁrst thing to do is to have your pet spayed. Or,
at least, resolve to keep your pet strictly controlled
during her breeding seasons.

You can enlist actively in the eﬂort to end this
cruelty, either as an individual, or as a member
of your local humane society or of the HSUS.
This booklet can give only a hint of what there is
to be known about this single problem, important
as it is. Your local humane society and the HSUS
can tell you much more, and can furnish informa-
tion on other problems, other cruelties, which badly
need and .deserve your attention and help, as a
good citizen and a kind person.

The humane societies of America have accom-
plished striking results in their struggle over the
past 100 years to eliminate cruelties to animals,
and to present moral and ethical thinking about
how people should treat animals. But today, be-
cause of our increases in national population, ani-
mal as well as human, and the rapid rise of modern
technology, the humane societies face problems
and carry burdens out of all proportion to their
present strength. A crucial time has come for them,
in which they must increase their membership, ex-
pand their programs, and meet the challenge of
modern living without retreating from the ideas
of kindness and true humanity upon which they
were founded, and with which they have done so
much to beneﬁt our country and all its people.

The humane societies need help. They need
members. They need money. Most of all the hu-
mane societies need cooperation from pet owners.
The suffering will never end until animal owners
recognize that they commit a terrible cruelty when
they permit the breeding of baby animals that they
cannot keep and humanely maintain.

If there is no humane society near you, ask The
Humane Society of the United States how you can
help.”

Enlist today in this campaign against
cruelty. You can stop the suffering.

(Additional copies of this folder can be bought
from The Humane Society of the United States,
Washington 6, D. C., at one cent each.)

 




The Humane Society of the United States,
publisher of this booklet, is the largest na-
tional society for the prevention of cruelty to
animals. It is made up of members, all over
the country, who want to do something about
the suffering of animals, and to maintain our
standards as a civilized nation.

The HSUS is a democratic organization, in
which the members elect directors every year
to lead the Society, and maintain a staff of
experts to carry out its program. The HSUS
works vigorously through the law and the
courts, where this will achieve the needed
results, but it believes that the ﬁnal answer
lies in teaching people what is wrong about
cruelty, what forms of cruelty need Special
attention, and how cruelties can be prevented
or stopped. It also aids and supports local
humane societies, SPCA’s, and animal wel-
fare leagues.

The HSUS is a non-proﬁt organization. Its
funds come from gifts and membership dues,
from kind-hearted people who believe in its
basic principles and objectives. As more and
more work must be undertaken, it needs
more money to carry out its programs. Most
of all, the HSUS needs the support of mem-
bers in every walk of life. All who agree-with
HSUS principles are eligible for membership,
and are welcome.

But, member or non-member, if you want to
ﬁnd out more about HSUS work, or about
humane societies in general, or if this short
folder has not told you all you would like to
know in response to your particular question
about the welfare of animals, write to:

THE HUMANE SOCIETY
OF THE UNITED STATES
1145 19th Street, NW.
Washington 6, D. C.

 




HE. 4856

 

 

 




Above: This dog, strapped to a surgery table and
unconscious, was found unattended in a Pitts-

burgh laboratory by an HSUS investigator. -Post-

surgery neglect of animals is common.

Below: This is where the Overholdt Thoracic Clinic
kept convalescing dogs, after experimental sur-

gery, until clinic employees were convicted of
cruelty.

Monkeys have been conﬁned contin-
uously for as long as ﬁve months in
devices like this, while suffering hun-
dreds of electric shocks.

 




  

 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Tulane University housed cats for months in
cages like these, suspended from ceiling. Note
spacing of ﬂoor wires, preventing cat from stand-
ing normally or resting comfortably.

More than 175,000,000 vertebrate animals
are used every year in American research
laboratories.

These animals undergo every extreme
of agony that ﬂesh and nerves can endure
—and some that are wholly beyond en-
durance. They are burned alive, scalded
without anaesthesia, crushed in steel
presses, starved to death. They are sub-
jected repeatedly to painful experimental
surgery, they die slowly of induced cancer,
many are miserably housed and many go
totally mad from years of cruel conﬁne-
ment without humane care.

(The Humane Society of the United States
will supply proof of the truth of these statements
to anyone who desires it. Write for Proof of
Cruelty in Laboratories, a booklet of documen-
tary evidence.)

Much of this suffering is unnecessary and
inexcusable, even by the criteria of medical re-
search. The cruelty does not advance science;

  

it retards medical progress; it wastes millions
of dollars that in other use could save human
lives and prevent suffering.

But only an effective law—Federal law——
can abate the cruelty being inﬂicted on labora-
tory animals. There are more than 9,000 animal-
using laboratories in the United States. Most of
these laboratories operate in great secrecy. Their
doors are locked; visitors are unwelcome.

It is utterly impossible for 9,000 laboratories,
employing 200,000 persons and using more
than 175,000,000 animals a year, to agree on
and to enforce humane standards for use and
care of animals. It is not even possible for
scientists in each of these locked laboratories to
know when they are uselessly duplicating work
already done in some other laboratory.

Humane control of the use of animals
in research can be achieved only by Federal
law.

a?“ we," -. [gm if“? f
[(5 M\ ‘t I‘Ll [‘l if) /‘-’_l (kl-l} ‘ A//

:3: “\ T7171 7 71'ny I A ”VAT/L lL I ‘ LU I ’f if: " l" i“
I ‘ l l ‘z‘I if J Jul Lo 30 1-,):2‘2 U ‘ ;/

  

i

a Iv Iur- ~> J

A bill that would effectively reduce cruelty
in laboratories has been introduced in Congress
by Rep. William J. Randall of Missouri.

The Randall bill, HR. 4856, would rapidly
improve the quality of medical research and
would save huge sums for taxpayers, besides
preventing cruelty.

Essential provisions of the Randall bill are:

1. It establishes rigorous standards of
humane use and care of animals.

2. It requires all government agencies
and all laboratories getting grants of Fed-
eral funds (almost every research labora-
tory in America) to abide by the established
standards.

3. It orders the Department of Justice
to enforce the law.

( Details of humane standards and enforce-

ment provisions of H.R. 4856 ﬁll 13 printed

 

  




 

"'EllVlS 'EINOZ 'AlD

”HEELS

"'HWVN

"$ esopua l

'uﬁgnduma SN]. u! pasn eq 04

(H303 ¢Z) ‘Pmesaﬂ I93!P9W SEND-lea Allan]: JGPIOJ, *0 gawk);
(”309 1‘00 SIDNEUV Momloqm oi saulamg *0 i°°ld *0 segdoa

:euJ oi pues esoeld
'Molaq peimgpug ADM at“ u! slowguo ,(Joimoqol iaeimd oi uﬁgoduma 6L“. u! dleq oi 1,qu l

(H309 :65 93W) MD1 0 aq 0; thno aiaql JGPIO} at“. ,to segdoa

'3 'a ’9 u046uwsnm

'M'N "48 qtueeieum 97H

semis peigun 9L“ }0 Kiegaog eunwnH eql

NOdIIOD Sllll 35“

pages. A copy of the bill will be sent free by
The HS US upon request.)

Other bills with the same objectives as the
Randall bill have been introduced in both the
Senate and the House of Representatives. In the
opinion of The HSUS, however, all except the
Randall bill (H.R. 4856) have faults that could
operate to protect cruelty in laboratories rather
than to prevent it. The Randall bill would pro-
hibit cruelties that all of the other bills would
permit. And all bills except the Randall bill
would entrust enforcement to government agen-
cies that themselves operate animal-using labora-
tories and which oppose enactment of any hu-
mane control law. The HSUS Board of Direc-
tors has described this idea as akin to “setting
the fox to guard the chickens.”

All humanitarians should support the

Randall bill, H.R. 4856.

The Moral Issue

To inﬂict or to permit avoidable suffering,
whether of a human being or an animal, is
cruelty. Cruelty is immoral. On this all of the
great religions of the world, all- ethical philos-
ophers, are agreed. The principle that cruelty
is immoral and should be prohibited and pre-
vented is already universally and deeply em—
bedded in American law.

Cruelty is abhorred not only because of what
it inﬂicts on its victims but because of what
cruelty does to its perpetrator.

Under present conditions, the American people
are ﬁnancing and tolerating a vast and terrible
cruelty. It is a cruelty that should be promptly
ended, for the moral health of our nation as
much as for the protection of the helpless ani-
mals that suffer.

Every moral man, woman and child, should
cry to Congress to enact HR. 4856.

HOW YOU CAN HELP ~

Whether the crime and folly of cruelty
to laboratory animals is to be ended de-
pends entirely upon what members of Con-
gress hear from the public. You can help
by acting in these ways:

1 Write to your own US. Representative
and the two US. Senators from your state,
urging them to work and vote for HR. 4856.
(Tell them that weaker bills will not be effective.)

2 Write a similar letter to President John
F. Kennedy.

3 Write to Rep. Kenneth Roberts, c/o
House Committee on Interstate and Foreign
Commerce, House Oﬂice Building, Washington,
D. C., thanking him for support of humane
legislation and speciﬁcally urging him to sup-
port H.R. 4856. (Mr. Roberts is Chairman of
the House sub-committee to which this legisla-
tion has been referred.)

4 Write a letter to the editor of one or
more local newspapers, for publication, urging
the public to support HR. 4856 and inviting
readers to request free literature from The

HSUS, Washington 6, D. C.

5 Use the adjacent coupon to order addi-
tional copies of this folder and other educational
publications, and distribute them widely—~at
church, at club meetings, by mail, at your place
of employment.

 

Ponder this: “He who is not
actively kind, is cruel.”

 

The Humane Society of The United States

1145 Nineteenth Street, N.W.
Washington 6, D. C.




. Proof
of Cruelty in

Laboratories

THE HUMANE SOCIETY

“3113 OF THE UNITED STATES
Washington 6, D.C.

 




 

 

 

FORE WORD

This booklet is a supplement to other publica-
tions of The Humane Society of the United States
about the use and abuse of animals in research.
Many persons, told for the ﬁrst time that in many
laboratories animals are cruelly neglected, that
animals are scalded to death without anaesthesia,
that they are beaten, burned, crushed, subjected to
exotic surgery—and then allowed to die slowly and
in agony———are incredulous. Very properly, such
persons ask for proof that such cruelties actually

OCCUI‘.

The sub-headings throughout this booklet are
quotations from statements made by The HSUS
elsewhere, usually in support of HR. 4856, a bill
introduced in the Eighty-eighth Congress by Rep.
William Randall of Missouri, designed to reduce

the suffering of laboratory animals to a minimum.

The purpose of the booklet is to supply docu-

mented proof of the truth of such statements.

Readers who would like to study publications of
more general nature or who would like to know

how they can help to stop cruelty are invited to

write to The HSUS.

 

 

 

 

 

66A

r001
The

abo

900
give
to i
N or
this
bre.
0th4




“Animals Are Burned Alive . . .9”
Harvard University built a special ﬁreproof
room in which to burn “lightly” anaesthetized pigs.
The pigs were laid on a steel grill a few inches
above shallow pans of gasoline which were ignited
by an electric spark. “Temperatures as high as
900 degrees Centigrade were obtained.” The pigs,
given no further sedative or anaesthetic, lived up
to four days. (Report of Symposium on Burns,
Nov. 2-4, 1950, National Research Council. In
this same report are details of dogs forced to
breathe air heated to 500 degrees Centigrade and
other dogs compelled to breathe actual ﬂame.)

“Animals Are Scalded . . .”

Scalding of animals is so common a laboratory
enterprise that the University of Pennsylvania has
developed a “standardized back burn procedure,”
in which rats are immersed in water only a few
degrees below the boiling point. (Journal of Lab-
oratory and Clinical Medicine, 30210211033,
1945)

Experimenters supported by the Oﬂice of Naval
Research scalded 43 female dogs by dipping them,
while anaesthetized, into water at 185 degrees
Fahrenheit. The dogs received no anaesthesia or
sedative after they regained consciousness. Most
died within 24 hours. (Surgical Forum, 10:346-
351, 1959.)

At Tulane University and the University of
Rochester, 43 dogs were subjected to scalding
burns covering approximately 70 per cent of body
surface, inﬂicted by lowering the animals into
nearly boiling water. Published charts show that
up to 6 hours later, 13 dogs had received no treat-
ment of any kind; at 24 hours, 5 dogs still had

3

 




 

received no treatment. (Surgical Forum, 10:346-

351.1959)

University of Mississippi experimenters im-
mersed 30 rats into nearly boiling water, then
divided the animals into three groups, of which one
group received no anaesthesia or treatment. (Sur-

gical Forum, 10:343-346, 1959.)

6‘. . . Without Anaesthesia . . .”

66'

. in order to obtain plasma from burned
rats, unanaesthetized animals were strapped by the
legs to a wooden board and dipped into boiling
water up to the rib cage for 5 seconds.” The
animals were killed 15 minutes later. (American

Journal of Physiology, Oct., 1957.)

“Animals Are Beaten . . .9”

Research workers of Columbia University ham-
mered the hind legs of dogs into pulp with more
than 1,000 blows of a rawhide mallet on each dog.
“Light anaesthetic” was given but “not enough to
eliminate the element of feel,” the researchers re-
ported. Ether was discontinued as soon as the
beating stopped. Of 30 dogs so treated, 25 died
of their injuries (without any subsequent sedative
or anaesthesia) in from one to nine hours after the
beatings. (American Journal of Physiology, Vol.
148, Jan. 1947.)

“Animals Are Crushed . . .9”

At the University 'of Rochester, experimenters
crushed a hind leg on each of more than 400 dogs
in a Blalock press, one common version of which is
here pictured.

 

 

234




234 HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS USED IN RESEARCH

.“ﬁtHll'ﬂ ."

t.
>
,
,2
w
-.
—r
in

 

FIGURE 1.-——THE MODIFIED BLALOCK PRESS.

The dog’s thigh is placed in the space marked A. B is a groove to accommodate the femur.
G is a calibrated knee action spring (from a Buick car). The desired pressure is exerted
on the thigh by screwing down the bolts, D, until the spring has been compressed the
requisite amount.

This press applied pressure of more than 2,000
pounds per square inch to the dogs’ legs. Each dog
was anaesthetized before being put in the press
but was “in no case” given any anaesthetic in the
last hour of four hours in the press. Nor was any
further anaesthetic or sedative given later. The
dogs usually died, in extreme pain, in from 5 to
12 hours but some dogs survived 24 hours. The
dogs, fully conscious, were tied down on a table
for 12 hours after being “pressed”. (Journal of
Clinical Investigation, 24:2, Man, 1946.)

 




 

 

 

As used at Johns Hopkins University, the Bla-
lock press applied pressure of 500 pounds per
square inch to dogs’ thighs, for 5 hours. “In a
typical experiment . . . no form of therapy was
carried out after its removal.” In some cases dogs
were kept in the press 15 hours. (Surgery, Gyne-
cology, and Obstetrics, 75,4:401, Oct, 1942.)

“Agonizing Head Injuries
Are Inﬂieted . . .”

At the University of Michigan and in labora-
tories at Wright Field “cats were struck (repeat-
edly on the head) by a pneumatic hammer driven
by compressed nitrogen” after receiving a relaxant
in “a dosage which reduced motor activity and
facilitated handling of the cats but did not render
them unconscious.” No anaesthetic was given later,
although all the cats suffered severe brain concus-

sions. (Archives of Neurology, 42449-462, Apr.,
1961.)

At St. Louis University brain concussions were
produced in dogs by “multiple blows to the head
with a l6-ounce hammer and by electrical detona-
tion of a blasting cap taped to the animal’s scalp.”
Only “light Nembutal anaesthesia” was given dur-
ing the acute stage of the experiment, none later.

(Journal of Neurosurgery, 172:669-676, 1960.)

“Animals Are Starved . . .”

Dogs were starved for as long as 65 days at
Creighton University. When at last the famished
animals were given food they “often appeared ill
or in pain.” They suffered convulsions, acute

6

2:15




231:.

diarrhea lasting several weeks, and vomiting.

(American Journal of Physiology, 169:248-352,
Apr., 1952.)

6‘. . . Every Extreme That
Flesh Can Endure . . .”

To determine the endurable limits and the effects
of many kinds of stress, Creighton University re-
searchers subjected dogs and other species to pro-
longed extreme cold, enforced swimming and
enforced running in a treadmill to the limits of
exhaustion, induced anoxia, surgical injuries of
various kinds, and acute emotional distress. The
researchers reported that “intensive emotional ten-
sion was created . . .” (Proceedings of the Society
for Experimental Biology and Medicine, 89:528-
533, 1955.)

“. . . Subjected Repeatedly To

Painful Experiments . . .”
At Cornell University, researchers surgically de-
stroyed the sight, hearing, and sense of smell in
cats and then for a period of 10 years “stimulated”
the mutilated animals by electric shocks, blows on
the face with a plastic ﬂy swatter, and pinching of

. the tail. (Archives of Neurology, 1:203-215,

1959.)

A cat used by Johns Hopkins University sur-
vived 139 days of this regimen: “. . . quite intense
and prolonged nociceptive (painful) stimuli were
applied. Such procedures as tying her (the cat)
in the dorsal decubitus (the position of a person
lying on the back in bed) on an animal board,

7

 

 




 

picking her up by the loose skin of the back and
vigorously shaking her, spanking her, pinching her
tail as hard as possible between thumb and fore-
ﬁnger . . . When her tail was grasped between the
jaws of a large surgical clamp and compressed
sufﬁciently to produce a bruise she cried loudly
and attempted to escape . . . During the 139 days of
survival she was subjected, every 2 or 3 days, to
a variety of noxious stimuli . . . On one occasion
her tail, shaved and moistened, was stimulated
tetanically (causing painful spasms like those of
tetanus) through electrodes . . . at the end of a 5-
second stimulation she screamed loudly and spat
twice. The last of these stimulations produced a
third-degree electrical burn of the tail.” (Pro-

ceedings of the Association for Research in Ner-

vous and Mental Diseases, 27:362-399, 1948.)

Miss Juliet Rainey, a technician in a large medi-
cal school, testiﬁed as follows before a committee
of the House of Representatives: “. . . the same
dogs are used again and again for operations, and
sometimes collapse from weakness as they are
dragged back to the scene of experimentation.”
(See Hearings on HR. 1937 and H.R 3556,
Eighty-Seventh Congress, p. 31.7.)

“Suffering [s Prolonged”

Monkeys have been rigidly conﬁned “night and
day” for as long as 15 months by the National

Institutes of Health and for as long as 5 months. by
the State College of Washington in devices s1mllar

to the “monkey chair” pictured here.

8

 

 

 

 

 

6614

sio
see
cor




 

“Animals Are Cruelly Neglected”

Dr. Bennett M. Derby testiﬁed, at the Congres-
sional committee hearing cited above: “. . . I have
seen inexcusably lax and esthetically sickening

conditions in some laboratories.”

 




 

Frank E. Adair, M.D., president of the Adair
Fund for Cancer Research, past president and now
honorary chairman of the Board of the Roscoe B.
Jackson Laboratory, told the House committee:
“It is obvious that I am not opposed to animal ex-
perimentation but only to the needless suffering to
which these animals are subjected and the atrocious
conditions under which these poor creatures are
kept by certain experimenters.”

Ralph Gwatkin, D.V.M., research veterinarian
at the University of Pennsylvania, wrote in a letter
included in the record of the House committee hear-
ing that he supports enactment of remedial legisla-
tion because of “the innumerable instances of need-
less cruelty which I personally have witnessed . . .”

(For extensive details of neglect and mistreat-
ment of animals in a typical laboratory, see Ani-
mals in a Research Laboratory, a 356-page book
published by The Humane Society of the United
States, Washington, 1961. $3.50.)

'“N‘Iost 0E The Suffering Is
Needless And Useless”

Westat Research Analysts, an eminent independ-
ent group of bio-statisticians, conducted an analysis
of all medical research experiments published in
the United States in 1961 and reported that 74.6
per cent of the experiments analyzed “could have,
by the use of proper statistical design, employed

reduced number of animals with essentlally no loss

in statistical significance.” It was estimated by

these scientiﬁc analysts that the number of animals
used could have been reduced by at least 23 per
cent and possibly by as much as 40 per cent. (See
Animals in Research, booklet published by The
Humane Society of the United States, 1963.)

10

 

 

C4

‘6




Charles M. Breed, Jr., M.D., told the House
committee that conducted hearings on this subject:
“Experimental. surgery by medical students is ab-
solutely needless. Furthermore, in many of our
outstanding teaching medical centers, there are
many surgeons who are doing experimental animal
surgery more to keep the surgeons busy than to
accomplish. anything of value.”

Speaking to a 1961 national assembly of scien-
tists who use animals in research, Dr. Mark L. Mor-
ris, then President of the American Veterinary Med-
ical Association and head of a research foundation,
said: “Research conducted on malnourished, dis-
eased and parasite-ridden laboratory animals will
only continue to add misinformation to our medical
literature, invalidate research results, increase the
cost of research and interfere with production.” Dr.
Morris, it should be noted, was describing condi-
tions that he and his audience recognized to be
common. Use of “malnourished, diseased and
parasite-ridden” animals causes needless, useless
suffering.

11

 




“vsm—‘h
.,,,

MAY, 1963

Laboratory Law Moves
To Congress Action

“

Newspapersfnatiori—aTmagazines, television and radio, Commenta-

tors, ofﬁcers of the giant General Federation of Women’s Clubs and
hundreds of humane societies and other organizations swung into support
of legislation to protect laboratory animals in April and May. Addi-
tional Congressmen committed themselves to vote for H.R. 4856, the
Randall bill, or any effective substitute bill that may go to Congress
for a vote. The HSUS greatly intensiﬁed and broadened its work of

telling the whole American public
why the use of animals in research
experiments should be limited and
controlled.

Rep. Kenneth Roberts of Ala-

bama, Chairman of the House of Repre-
sentatives committee to which bills
calling for protection of laboratory
animals have been referred, reiterated
his intention of scheduling soon a new
hearing on the subject. Mr. Roberts
said that the hearing may run as long
as four days.

Most" notable development in the
campaign this month was a decision by
Mrs. Dexter Otis Arnold, President of
the General Federation of Women’s
Clubs, to recommend support of strong
laboratory-animal legislation to the
GFWC Resolutions Committee and to
the Federation’s annual convention, to
be held in Minneapolis in June. Afﬁli-
ates of the GF WC have more than
11,000,000 members and they have
many times demonstrated great inﬂuence
in Congress.

HSUS members

(continued on page 2 )

who visited Con-

 

Wyoming Society

Files Suit to Outlaw
Rodeo Steer-Busting

The Wyoming Humane Society,
backed by funds contributed by The
HSUS, ﬁled a suit in Cheyenne District
Court April 21, asking for a declaratory
judgment that steer-roping in rodeos is
an illegal cruelty to animals.

This unusual legal action results from
a ruling by the State Attorney General,
holding that Wyoming anti-cruelty stat-
utes were not intended to protect cattle,
especially in rodeos. Relying on the
opinion of the Attorney General, other
state authorities have refused to
prosecute perpetrators of steer-busting
cruelties.

In the steer-busting event, a heavy
steer running at top speed is roped and
then snubbed to a Violent halt at an
angle that throws the steer head over
heels. Many steers are maimed and

even killed by the shock.

VOL. 8, NO. 2

HSUS Prosecution of
Cockfighters Sets

Important Precedent

As a test” case, The HSUS recently
participated directly and successfully in
prosecution of two promoters of a cock-

ﬁght in Maryland.

County police raided the cockﬁght
but charged the promoters only with
maintaining a disorderly establishment
because Maryland has no law speciﬁc-
ally forbidding cockﬁghts.

Frank McMahon, HSUS Field Repre-
sentative, ﬁled a supplementary charge
of cruelty to animals, acting under the
state’s general anti-cruelty statute.

Both men were found guilty of
cruelty. Both were ﬁned and one was
sentenced to a jail term with the im-
prisonment suspended. The Magistrate
held, in a statement explaining his ﬁnd-
ing of guilty, that evidence submitted
by The HSUS proved that cockﬁghting

is cruelty, prima facie.

_
A very large proportion of this

issue is devoted to news of the na-
tional campaign for a Federal law
to protect laboratory animals from
cruelty. It could not be otherwise
because this campaign is by far the
biggest and most important busi-
ness now on the agenda of the hu-
mane movement and our space is
limited. Other work is being done
in great quantity, however, and a
condensation of important news
crowded out of this issue will be
published in the July News.

—

'I‘F—-IIO-‘fA_—_A !_—-_5’

'

 

 




Laboratory Law

( continued from page 1)

gressmen in Washington in April and
May, personally urging support for
H.R. 4856, were told by many of the
legislators that mail favoring laboratory-
animal legislation is heavier than on
any other issue before Congress. Repre-
sentative Randall, author of H.R. 4856,
told The HSUS with amusement and
obvious pleasure that he is being con-
tinually “jumped on” with wry humor
by other Congressmen “for starting all
this uproar.” Congressmen who tradi-
tionally pride themselves on sending a
personal reply to every letter from a
constituent have been forced to resort
to form letters to handle correspondence
about the Randall bill.

R. J. Chenoweth, Chairman of the
HSUS Board of Directors, urged again
that every effort be made to keep a
heavy volume of mail ﬂowing into Con-
gress in support of HE. 4856. “It is a
healthy part of our democratic Ameri-
can way of government,” Mr. Chenoweth
said. “If Congress knows what the pub-
lic wants, Congress usually goes along
with majority opinion. This is par-
ticularly true when the issue at stake
has important moral qualities.”

Many local humane societies in April
and May adopted resolutions endorsing
H.R. 4856 and several local societies
sent contributions to The HSUS from
their treasuries for support of the na-
tional campaign.

Cleveland Amory, HSUS Director
and noted author, lecturer and TV com-
mentator, became outstandingly promi-
nent in the campaign. Mr. Amory took
part in April in two television programs
and two radio programs, in which he
spoke forcefully for H.R. 4856, wrote
a short article on the subject that was
published in the Saturday Review in
May, and completed another major
article on the American humane move-
ment and its current goals, scheduled
for publication in a major national
magazine next month.

Editorial

The badly misnamed American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, which sells large numbers of animals to research laboratories for un-
controlled experimental procedures, on May 1 published a statement condemning

all current attempts to achieve protection for laboratory animals.

Under certain conditions, the ASPCA said, it would support Federal legisla-
tion along that line but the Society denounced all of six pending bills as either
inadequate or excessively “punitive.”

The ASPCA thinks that the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare
(not Congress) should decree what standards of animal use and care are to be
maintained by Federal government research agencies and by institutions and
individuals that receive grants of Federal research funds. The ASPCA suggests
that the Secretary of HEW should have a rather remarkable advisory panel
(apparently with no power), composed of representatives of research laboratories,
the American Veterinary Medical Association (which certainly would also reﬂect
the Views of research laboratories) and of “humane organizations.” The ASPCA
would limit the representation of the humane movement to three organizations:

“which are and have been for not less than ten years actively and
chieﬂy engaged, under provisions of federal, state or municipal law, in
the physical care and shelter of animals and are directly responsible
for the enforcement of laws relating to animal protection and welfare.”

(If the ASPCA had added “. . . and which sell animals to laboratories,” it

would have been even more clear that the ASPCA is recommending itself.)

The humane movement should clearly understand what the ASPCA proposes.
Buried in the ASPCA double-talk are these propositions:

1. Laboratory animals do need protection by Federal law (mirabile
dictu and hurrah! );

2. But Congress should not enact into law any speciﬁc standards
for use or care of laboratory animals;

3. Because the Department of Health, Education and Welfare can
be expected to promulgate and enforce satisfactory standards without
help from Congress.

In other words: a law is needed but let’s not enact any real law!

Many will wonder why the ASPCA, once the noble creation of the noble
Henry Bergh, is so far out of the mainstream of the humane movement. We do
not know; there is no technique of psychoanalysis for organizations. But perhaps
there is a clue in the fact that the present-day ASPCA lives in the style to which
it has become accustomed only because the New York State Legislature permits
it to collect and keep approximately $1,000,000 a year in taxes from New
York City dog owners. The Society is consequently preeminently a tax collector,
dog catcher and pound master, hired from year to year by the Legislature.

Pressure from former Governor Dewey and leaders of the Legislature,
backed by control over the purse strings, induced the ASPCA back in 1951 to
endorse the law under which it now sells animals from its shelters to laboratories.

The ASPCA now says that it makes such sales voluntarily; it advocates that all
humane societies do likewise.

Humanitarians, we think, will know what answer to make to such a Society

when it condemns bills that would save tens of millions of animals annually
from suffering.

 

matim
ect hat

ty. It

rtbi
[3...
'HR

w Rad
ions of
taXJpa
the Q‘f
b e 51
wri'ble C
on an?
1 the 5
e been
t all h
e pendi
bitlﬂ W
en-t alg
it then
als in
jtvy 0i
. Exp

.1»;

, a“,
00.“
g .

85

’s 4h“
own 1%
0th on
5 them
gaunda'll
pendi

 

 

 

 

 








 

 

 

 

HSUS Board Initiates New Activities;
F. L. Thomsen to Complete Boggs Term

The HSUS Board of Directors intensively reviewed the program and ﬁnances
of the Society at a regular meeting held in Washington headquarters ofﬁces in
March and acted in several ways to extend major activities designed to protect
animals from cruelty and to strengthen the entire American humane movement.

Action that resulted in amendment of Society by-laws by the membership
is reported elsewhere in this issue. The amendments will enable the Board and
staff to creat a new national Education Department and to increase ﬁeld work

of various kinds.

The Board studied reports on the
campaign to protect laboratory animals
from cruelty, campaigns in many states
for laws requiring humane methods of
slaughtering livestock, services being
provided for HSUS Afﬁliates and other
humane societies, the development of
HSUS Branches and prospects for or-
ganizing new Branches, several aspects
of sport hunting and trapping, and
society ﬁnances.

With great regret the Board accepted
the resignation from the Board of Mr.
C. Edward Boggs, of Janesville, Wise.
Mr. Boggs, former President of the
Rock County Humane Society and a
Vice President of Parker Pen Co., has
been assigned by the Parker Company
to establish a new Far East merchandis-
ing enterprise for the Company and is
moving to Hong Kong.

To ﬁll Mr”. Boggs’ term, which would
have expired at the annual meeting in
September of this year, the Board
elected Dr. F. L. Thomsen of St. Peters-
burg, Fla. Dr. Thomsen, Chairman of
the Legislation Committee of the Florida
Federation of Humane Societies, is a
consulting economist. He formerly was
a professor of agricultural marketing at
the University of Missouri and Chief of
the Bureau of Agricultural Marketing
Research of the U. S. Department of
Agriculture.

The Board approved a recommenda-
tion by the Executive Director that the
office of the Livestock Department and
Rocky Mountain Region be moved from
Denver to Boulder, Colo., with Mr.
Belton P. Mouras continuing in charge

 

of the Livestock Department and re-
gional ﬁeld work. The move will achieve
economies without affecting efﬁciency.
Boulder, 35 miles from Denver, is the
site of the University of Colorado.
The President appointed, with con-
sent of the Board, a 1963-64 Nominat-
ing Committee, charged under the by-
laws with the duty of proposing new
Directors to be elected by the member-
ship at the annual meeting in September.
Members of the committee are: Mr.
Jacques Sichel, Union, N.J., Chairman;
Miss Edith J. Goode, Washington, DC;

Mr. R. J. Chenoweth, Kansas City, Mo.
(ex ofﬁcio as President) ; Mrs. G. Martel
Hall, Nacogdoches, Tex., and Miss Ruth
Fisher, Aurora, N.Y. Mr. Sichel invites
any HSUS member who wishes to sug-
gest a nomination to write to him at
1024 Sayre Road, Union, NJ.

The President also appointed the fol-
lowing new committees, to serve until
the 1964 spring meeting of the Board:

Program Planning—Miss Goode,
Chairman; Mr. Cleveland Amory, Dr.
James T. Mehorter, Mr. Sichel.

Branches and Affiliates—Mr.
Sichel, Chairman; Mr. Frederic D.
Kerr, Mrs. Virginia Milliken, Mr.
Will Copp (Vice-President, Connecticut
Branch).

Investments and Finance —— Mr.
E. M. Bostick, Chairman; Miss Goode,
Mr. D. Collis Wager.

The full Board of Directors will meet
again during the National Leadership
Conference at Shawnee-on-Delaware,
Penna, in September. In the meantime
the Executive Committee and other
committees will maintain supervision of
activities.

 

DIRECTORS OF
THE HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES

Term expires l963

Dr. Myra Babcock

Mrs. George F. Milliken
F. L. Thomsen

Mrs. Edward S. Voss

Detroit. Michigan
New York. New York
St. Petersburg. Florida
Monkton. Maryland

Term expires l964

Edward M. Bostick
Robert J. Chenoweth
Miss Edith J. Geode
Frederic D. Kerr

D. Collis Wager

Falls Church. Virginia
Kansas City. Missouri

Washington. D. C.
San Rafael. California

Utica. New York

Term expires I965

Cleveland Amory

Miss Grace Conahan
Dr. James T. Mehorter
Jacques V. Sichel

6. Martin Winemiller

New York. New York
Webster Groves. Missouri
Pittsfield. Massachusetts
Union. New Jersey

Findlay. Ohio

 




Second Survey of Death
On Highways Scheduled;

Volunteers Needed

Plans are being completed for several
hundred HSUS members and friends to
take to highways and country side-roads
all over the nation on July 4 to conduct
the second annual survey of the number
of animals and birds killed by motor
vehicles and of conditions that might
be changed to reduce the slaughter.

Many survey workers will be urgently
needed and everyone who can spare a
few hours on July 4 is invited to volun-
teer. Speciﬁc work assignments can be
obtained from Mr. Lewis Timberlake,
Director of the HSUS Service Depart-
ment, 1145 Nineteenth St., N .W., Wash-
ington 6, D. C.

The purpose of the annual survey of

’ initiated last

“death on the highways,’
year, is to make the American motoring
public aware of the huge number of
animals and birds that are killed and
maimed by motor vehicles and to ob-
tain statistics and highway engineering

facts that affect the death rate.

The 1962 HSUS survey showed that
almost 2,000,000 animals and birds
were killed on that single day. The an-
nual highway kill of animals and birds
can be conjectured, from that ﬁgure, to
be 750,000,000. The estimate will not
become statistically reliable, however,
until further annual surveys are com-
pleted and ﬁgures obtained are scien-
tiﬁcally weighed and analyzed.

Volunteer survey workers will be ~as-
signed sections of road ranging from
one mile to ten miles in length, some
to be covered on foot and some by
motor car. Survey forms will require a
count of animals killed plus details of
roadside plantings, road design and en-
gineering, topographic features, a trafﬁc
count and trafﬁc speed averages.

Volunteers are requested to write im-
mediately for assignments.

A-V Societies Debate
Stand on Lab Laws

Leading anti-Vivisection societies of
the United States and Great Britain are
engaged in a widening discussion of
the merits of legislation to protect an-
imals used in research laboratories, with
indications of an accelerating move-
ment toward support of such legislation.
A-V societies in both countries have
traditionally opposed all “regulation” of
use of animals in laboratories, arguing
that any control by law would make
total abolition of Vivisection more

difﬁcult.

The National Anti-Vivisection Society
of Great Britain has just published a
booklet that included this statement:

“The society does not oppose,
but on the contrary supports, any
and every measure for the amelio-
ration of the present condition of
laboratory animals . . . To clamor
for nothing short of total abolition
is simply beating the air, and de-
laying, perhaps irrevocably, the
goal we most earnestly desire.”

The British society condemns the

existing British control law, enacted in
1876, as inadequate but believes that

a really effective regulation is desirable.

In the United States, the Managing
Director of the National Anti-Vivisec-
tion Society, Clarence E. Richard, this
month proposed to the society’s Board
of Directors that society members be
given an opportunity through a referen-
dum to determine whether the society
should support the current national
campaign for a Federal law to protect
laboratory animals. Mr. Richard made
it clear that he believes that total aboli-
tion of Vivisection is the only acceptable
goal for the society but urged that
society members be allowed to decide
what strategy should be pursued.

Many NAVS members, Mr. Richard
said, already have indicated opinions
like that expressed by the British Na-
tional A-V Society.

MARY ARCHER DEAD

The HSUS records with regret the
death on March 28 of Miss Mary Archer,
long head of the Animal Rescue League
of Berks County. She was 82. Miss
Archer was the ﬁrst woman member
from Pennsylvania of the Democratic
National Committee and for 50 years
was widely known as a battler for the
rights of underprivileged human beings
as well as animals.

ﬂow to 5m: to flu/plane Work
While increasing your income

Many HSUS members, we know, depend on the income from relatively small
investment funds to maintain or supplement their retirement incomes. They would
like to contribute a substantial gift to help protect animals from cruelty but
they must keep the income from their capital to meet living expenses.

Such people, through use of HSUS Annuity Funds, now can satisfy their
wish to give while at the same time obtaining a higher and secure income for

the rest of their lives.

For example, a widow who is 70 years old will receive a yield of 6.4 per cent
per year from any sum put into an HSUS Annuity and most of the yield will be
entirely tax-free. There are other tax advantages, too. And when the donor no
longer needs the income, the principal of the fund will be used to ﬁght cruelty

and, prevent suffering.

Write to the Treasurer of The HSUS, Mr. E. M. Bostick, for a free booklet,
Life-Time Security Through Humane Giving, and decide for yourself whether
an HSUS Annuity Fund would be advantageous for you.

5

 




 

 

 

A sectionofth interior barn near Attica, Ind., in which LeRoy
Brutus, dog dealer for laboratories, has been keeping as many as 150

dogs.

Individual cages, which have wire bottoms, are about 20 x 30

inches ﬂoor area. HSUS is prosecuting Brutus, charging cruelty.

HSUS Members Get Results

Letters From

In the preceding issue of this publi-
cation The HSUS reported and com-
mented on a bow-and-arrow rabbit hunt
heretofore conducted annually by the

Owosso, Mich, YMCA.

Many people subsequently wrote pro-
tests to the Owosso YMCA and the Na-
tional Council of YMCA’s.

The National Council has since then
informed writers that it expressed
“strong disapproval” to the Owosso or-
ganization and “it is our understanding
that this event will not be conducted
again.”

And do you remember the 90-minute,
“living color” bullﬁght presented on

NBC television in early February, with
panegyrics for the “artistry” and
“beauty” of the spectacle? We sug-
gested that people who don’t like bull-
ﬁghts write to commercial sponsors of

the Show as well as to NBC.

One of the sponsors was Georgia-
Paciﬁc Corporation, manufacturers of
building products, packaging, etc.

On Feb. 3 Mr. Robert 0. Lee, Direc-
tor of Public Relations and Advertising,
was writing to protesters:

“These kinds of activity need to be
reported to the American people
We hope to continue sponsoring these'
programs (sport shows) as we feel they
are of deﬁnite educational value.”

6

HSUS Field Agent

Prosecutes Dog Dealer

Cruelty charges were ﬁled in April
against LeRoy Brutus, an Attica, lnd.,
wholesale dog dealer chieﬂy serving re-

search laboratories, by Frank McMahon,
HSUS Field Representative.

McMahon accused Brutus in Warren
County Circuit Court of keeping an-
imals in overcrowded and insanitary
cages for prolonged periods. As many
as six dogs were found crowded in small
Wire cages, with Wire bottoms. Cages
were stacked in tiers, with urine and
feces from upper cages dripping on
animals in lower units.

It was reported in Attica that a
brother of LeRoy Brutus, a veterinarian,
has been conducting research experi-
ments on dogs kept in the Brutus estab-
lishment and has been taking serum
from dogs there on order of one of
the pharmaceutical
companies.

nation’s largest

Brutus is scheduled for trial in May.

The Tippecanoe Humane Society and
the Animal Welfare League of Fountain
and Warren Counties cooperated in the
investigation.

By March 5 the same Mr. Lee was
writing:

“I can assure you that we will not be
showing bullﬁghting again.”

Incidentally, General Mills, another
sponsor of the bullﬁghts, said that it had
not previewed the show but henceforth
will insist on doing so. “We agree with
you,” Vice President Nate L. Crabtree
wrote to The HSUS. “We don’t think
it was in the best interests of the general
public.”

 

Nothing will ever be attempted
if all possible objections must ﬁrst
be overcome.—Samuel Johnson

 




 

Members Approve By-Laws

Amendments; Oliver Evans

New HSUS President

HSUS members almost unanimously
approved an amendment of the Society’s
by-laws, recommended by the Board of
Directors, in a nation-wide referendum
conducted in April and May.

Members obviously thought the pro-
posal submitted by the Board was not
controversial. Only 1,564 ballots were
cast during the 30 days that the records
were open for voting and 1,557 voters
approved the amendments, with only 7
voting against them.

Principal effects of the amendments
will be to create two new ofﬁces, Chair-
man of the Board of Directors and Vice-
Chairman; make the Presidency a full-
time staff ofﬁce; and abolish the title of
Executive Director, heretofore held by
the chief staff executive.

The Board of Directors had pre-
viously voted, at a meeting held in
Washington in March, and announced
to members, that if the amendments
were approved the following changes in

ofﬁce would be made effective by the
Board:

Mr. R. J. Chenoweth, President
of the Society since its inception, to
become Chairman of the Board;

Mr. D. Collis Wager, Vice-Presi-
dent since inception, to become
Vice-Chairman ;

Mr. Oliver Evans, 3 Director
since inception of the Society, to
become President;

Mr. Fred Myers, Executive Di-
rector since inception, to become
Vice-President and Director of a
new Education Department.

The amended by-laws and the elec-
tion of Mr. Chenoweth, Mr. Wager, Mr.
Evans and Mr. Myers to new ofﬁces
became effective May 7 as a result of
the vote by the membership.

Mr. Evans, for many years a Director

and recently President of the Animal
Protective Association of Missouri, will

move from Clayton, Mo., to Washington
in mid-summer to assume his new ofﬁce.
Mrs. Evans, herself a widely known hu-
manitarian, already has visited Wash-
ington with Mr. Evans on a home-hunt-
ing expedition. Mr. Evans has been a
corporation Director and ﬁnancier.

CHILDREN HELP H.R. 4856

Thousands of wonderful people and
groups are working hard and making
generous gifts to support the campaign
for protection of laboratory animals but
the April gift that perhaps we valued
highest of all was a money order for
$4.20 contributed by members of the
Junior High School Dog Club of Bloom-
ﬁeld, N. ]. Judy Lindquist, President,
said that the Club wanted the money
used to get H.R. 4856, the Randall bill,

enacted into law. It will be so used.

   

you expect more—and you yet it

NEW BOOKLET

Supplementing other publications on
use and abuse of animals in laboratories,
The HSUS has just published a lZ—page
booklet offering documented proof that
great numbers of animals are subjected
to intense and prolonged pain in re-
search procedures.

Since April 1 The HSUS has dis-
tributed close to 200,000 copies of its
folder explaining the need for HR.
4856, There Ought to be a Law, and
more than 10,000 copies of the new
“proof” booklet. All humanitarians are
invited to help achieve massive further
distribution of these two publications.
Single copies will be sent free to any-
one requesting them. When large quan-
tities are ordered, a contribution is re-\
quested of 2 cents each for the folder
and 10 cents each for the booklets.

More and more often, humanitarians and local humane
societies of the entire country turn to The HSUS when
they have troubles or meet emergencies. Two Indiana
societies telegraph jointly for help with a big cruelty in-
vestigation. A New York society needs plans for a new
animal shelter. An Arkansas city manager telephones
for advice about an ordinance. A California member
wants help in organizing a new humane society. Our
headquarters and our Branches handle up to 500 calls
of this kind every month. People expect action when

they turn to The HS US—and they get it.

It takes lots of

money, however, to pay for travel, lawyers, investiga—

tors, educational materials.

The Society needs more

money—not to build up a treasury; just to get the work
done. Will you use the coupon below, please?

you as a voting member.)

————————————————1

7

The Humane Society of the United State-s

1145 - 19 Street, N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

I want to have a part in the national campaign to prevent cruelty to
laboratory animals and in all the other work of The HSUS.

Enclosed is $---- ............................ to be used to make your work possible.
(Gifts to The HSUS are tax deductible. A gift of $5 or more can qualify

NAME __________________________________________________
STREET _________________________________________________
cmr, zone, STATE _____________________________

 




Utah and Connecticut Pass Seizure Laws;

HSUS Branches Fighting in Both States

Two unusually bad animal seizure
laws, which aim at taking dogs from
pounds and animal shelters for labora-
tory uses, were enacted this spring by
Connecticut and Utah. The Utah law
seems to be aimed by its authors di-
rectly and particularly at The HSUS
Utah State Branch and is being chal-
lenged by The HSUS and its Utah
Branch in the Utah Supreme Court.

Both the Utah and Connecticut laws
require that public pounds deliver un-
claimed dogs to any research laboratory
approved by the state health depart-
ments. The Utah statute aims even more
broadly at any animal shelter that im-
pounds or holds any dog under any
authority of law.

Spokesmen for sponsors of the Utah
law told officers of The HSUS Utah
State Branch that they particularly de-
sire and intend to take animals from
the shelter in suburban Salt Lake City
that the Branch owns and operates. The

Branch last year sheltered approximately
13,000 animals, several times more than

 

EXECUTIVE WANTED

The HSUS Connecticut Branch seeks
an Executive Director, demonstrably
dedicated to humane principles and
capable of leading a state-wide pro-
gram of animal protection and humane
education. Must be highly capable
organizer and leader of volunteer
workers, imaginative and aggressive
in planning and executing program,
able and willing to assume responsi-
bility for fund-raising and fiscal poli-
cies, planning to make permanent
career in humane work. The existing
strong Board of Directors and mem-
bership will give influential support.
Initial salary $9,000. Write fully to
Mr. John Roos, President, HSUS Con-
necticut Branch, 41 Rachelle Avenue,
Stamford, Conn., telling why you
would like this job and your quali-
fications for it.

 

 

 

entered the combined public pounds of
the city and county.

Ofﬁcers of the Branch immediately
announced that they will, of course, de-
liver no animals to laboratories and
asked the national society for help in
contesting the constitutionality of the
law in court. Murdaugh S. Madden,
HSUS General Counsel, ﬂew from Wash-
ington to Utah in early May to confer
with local counsel and to arrange the
necessary court action.

The HSUS Connecticut Branch Board
of Directors met in May with Fred
Myers, HSUS Executive Director, to

.. plan a campaign to induce the state
' Director of Public Health to promulgate

high standards of humane care of lab-
oratory animals under authority given
to him by the seizure law. The Branch
will seek to incorporate principal pro-
visions of the Randall bill, pending in
Congress, into the administrative pro-
cedures and regulations of the Connect-
icut law.

Famous Veterinarian
Chides AVMA for Stand
Against Lab Laws

In a hearing on proposed laboratory
legislation conducted last autumn by a
committee of the House of Representa-
tives, spokesmen for the American
Veterinary Medical Association told
Congress that the AVMA is opposed to
any control by law of use of research
animals.

Dr. Gerry B. Schnelle, chief veteri-
narian of the famous Angell Memorial
animal hospital in Boston, operated by
the Massachusetts SPCA, eloquently
spoke the opposite opinions of many
veterinarians in a letter published
March 1 in the Journal of the AVMA.
Dr. Schnelle wrote:

“Doctor L. Meyer Jones, speaking
‘for the AVMA,’ did not speak for all
its members when he said before a con-
gressional subcommittee hearing on HR

8

1937 and HR 3556 that the AVMA is
‘irrevocably opposed to federal licens-
ing and policing of scientiﬁc investi-
gators and laboratories.’ He goes on to
say that ‘We do not accept the a priori
premise of these bills, i.-e., that animals
in scientiﬁc laboratories in the United
States routinely are ill-housed and mis-
treated and, therefore, that corrective
legislation is necessary.’

“I do not accept the premise that
all research-minded M.D.’s, Ph.D.’s, or
D.V.M.’s are a priori kind, decent, and
possessed of higher motives and sensi-
tivities, nor that all the animals they
use are well housed and humanely
treated. Is it not true that disclosures
have been made (and were made at the
above hearing) that animals used for
research paid for by US. funds have
actually been horribly ill-housed and
maltreated? What about the Franklin
(Mass) case in which dogs, for which
funds for housing and care were pro-
vided by the N.I.H., were in fact sub-
jected to heart surgery, and when re-
covered from anethesia just put out-of-
doors in a Massachusetts winter, with
a few boards tacked on trees as shelter,
and with garbage or a few dead chickens
their only food, unless they ate each
other? (They did!) These dogs were
seized by Massachusetts state police and
brought to this hospital for care. The
pleurisy, pericarditis, and endocarditis
present in two of them exceeded any-
thing I have ever seen in spontaneous
disease.

“I have very great respect for the
medical profession, and both friendship
and deep regard for many physicians,
but I have been witness to most indif-
ferent ‘care’ given laboratory animals
in highly respected medical schools for
many, many years. . . .

“Doctor Jones stated that ‘humane
care and use of experimental animals
cannot be obtained by simple legislative
act.’ Perhaps not, but humane slaughter
is being enforced by simple legislative
act after humane persons fought for
nearly 50 years to correct slaughter
abuses, and they fought without much
help from the AVMA.”

 




THE LABORATORY
ANIMALS BILL

To Provide for Humane Treatment

of Animals Used for Research
(5. 3570)

Introduced by Hon. John Sherman Cooper (R. Ky.)
with the following co-sponsors: Hon. E. L. Bartlett
(D. Alaska), Hon. Robert C. Byrd (D. W.Va.) , Hon.
Joseph S. Clark (D. Pa.), Hon. Ernest GrUening
(D. Alaska), Hon. Estes Kefauver (D. Tenn.), Hon.
Mike Mansﬁeld (D. Mont), Hon. Pat McNamara
(D. Mich.), Hon. Wayne Morse (D. Oreg.), Hon.
Wm. Proxmire (D. Wis), Hon. Jennings Randolph
(D. W.Va.), Hon. Harrison Williams, Jr. (D. N.J.)

Hon. Frank Church (D. Idaho).

This is a bill designed to prevent unneces-
sary cruelty to animals in research institutions
receiving Federal grants, and in agencies of
the United States government, without ham-
pering medical research.

Some research institutions treat laboratory
animals humanely. In many others, abuses of
the kinds outlined below are to be found. Why

should not all research institutions be obliged
to conform to the high standards set by leaders
in the ﬁeld, here and abroad?

UNNECESSARY SUFFERING FOR
LABORATORY ANIMALS
(The following ahuyer are typical of rerearch
institution; which do not mahe adequate pro-
vixiom for the humane treatment of animalr;
however, no one inititution combine: them all.)

HOW IS NEEDLESS MISERY CAUSED
TO‘ ANIMALS THROUGH NEGLIGENCE?

Intanitary conditions are a came. Caretakers
do not keep quarters clean, sometimes thrOugh
neglect, and sometimes because faulty drainage
and lack of ventilation create sanitation diﬂi-
culties. Among other vermin, roaches multiply.
N o veterinary care is available in many institu-
tions when epidemics of virus diseases, mange,
ﬂeas and worms sweep these insanitary animal
quarters. Sick and healthy animals are not
segregated; dead animals are not promptly re-

1

 




 

moved. Incisions become infected or begin to
bleed; stitches work loose opening the wound,
and in some cases, the body cavity; organs fall
out; and there is no post-operative care.
Callous mishandling is widespread. For in-
stance, attendants hose down small cages
without removing the dogs; sick dogs are
drenched with cold water.

Malnutrition is seen widely; in certain cases,
feeding and watering are so irregular that ani-
mals have died of thirst.

WHY DOES THIS NEGLIGENCE EXIST?

In some institutions, administrators fail to
appropriate sufﬁcient funds and space for ani-
mal quarters. The low pay for the post of ani-
mal caretaker results in a large turnover of un-
skilled labor; untrained and indifferent work-
ers are left without any incentive to perform
their duties conscientiously. Many research
workers refuse to take responsibility for the
care of their animals, and do not accord even
the most cursory supervision to the caretakers;
others attempt to supervise, but are unable to
get any cooperation from the kind of personnel
they have to deal with.

HOW DOES THE UNREALISTIC
DESIGN OF ANIMAL QUARTERS
CONTRIBUTE TO SUFFERING?
Equipment at least ﬁfty years out of date is
perpetuated even in new buildings; no pro-
vision is made for some of the most basic needs
of animals, rest and exercise.
Lack of space: Animals are kept in cages so
small as to prevent them from standing erect
or stretching out. For periods as long as seven
years, healthy dogs are housed in metal mesh
cages so small that they can only exercise by
spinning around in a circle.
Lack of a resting place: Animals are forced
to sleep on metal mesh, without resting boards
or bedding. When mesh is not used, cold slop-
ing metal ﬂoors or sodden concrete may make
beds for sick animals.
Poor ventilation and temperature control: Ex-
cessive heat or cold, depending on the climate,

2

and an overpowering stench characterize some
animal quarters.

HOW IS UNNECESSARY SUFFERING
INFLICT ED ON ANIMALS DURING
EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURE?

1. Adequate use is not always made of anes-
thesia. For surgical operations, muscle relax-
ants, such as curare and its derivatives, are
sometimes used to immobilize animals and are
not always used in conjunction with sufficient
anesthesia. Sedation is virtually never used to
alleviate post-operative suffering. It is worth
noting that (although this may in some cases
be justiﬁable) in experiments in many fields,
such as the study of shock, severe pain is in-
ﬂicted without the benefit of an anesthetic.

2. Animals are not always killed at the ter-
mination of experiments even though they are
suffering severely; they are left to die. Those
which survive, in some institutions are used
again. One dog may undergo up to nine sep-
arate painful surgical operations performed by
students.

3. Experiments involving the inﬂiction of
severe pain on unlimited. numbers of animals
are undertaken by insufﬁciently qualiﬁed re-
searchers, and by students.

4. Experiments are sometimes designed
without regard to the suffering they may cause.

WHY IS THERE A NEED FOR SOME
REGULATION OF THE AMOUNT OF
SUFFERING WHICH MAY BE CAUSED
IN EXPERIMENTS ON LABORATORY
ANIMALS?

Responsible scientists plan their experiments
so as to inﬂict the least possible pain on the
smallest possible number of animals; further,
before deciding to perform an experiment,
they objectively weigh the value of the knowl-
edge to be gained against the suffering to be
caused. Such scientists have their own codes of
ethics, and it is not for them that regulation
is needed. As a leading British medical pe-

3

H

mv—mamd

’4de

H—nH—t




riodical, The Lancet, commented, (May 31,
1952), "There is every reason to suppose that
individual research workers in America impose
upon themselves a code of humane regard for
animals. . . . Regulations are designed not for
the well-doers, however, but for the aberrant;
and, mankind being what it is, these are as
likely to be found among research scientists as
any other group.”

A SUMMARY OF THE CHIEF
FEATURES OF THIS BILL

1. No research grant may be made by the
Federal government to any person using live
vertebrate animals in research unless that per-
son has obtained a Certiﬁcate of Compliance
With the Act.

2. In order to obtain a Certiﬁcate of Com-
pliance, each researcher must agree to see that
his animals are given adequate care and hous-
ing, and are not subjected to unnecessary pain
and fear.

3. The researcher must submit a project-
plan of his experiments to the Secretary of
Health, Education and Welfare.

4. Inspectors from the Department of
Health, Education and Welfare must be given
access to laboratories and animal quarters at
any time; researchers who are not complying
with the Act may have their Certiﬁcate of Com-
pliance suspended or revoked by the Secretary.

5. Laboratories of United States government
agenCies must adhere to the same standards as
Federal grantees.

ANSWERS TO SOME QUESTIONS
OFTEN ASKED ABOUT THE BILL

IS REGULATION OF THE KIND OUT—
LINED IN THIS BILL PRACTICABLE?
Regulation of a similar kind has been in
effect in Great Britain since 1876, and is
accepted by the scientiﬁc community there.
British research is in the front rank—from the

4

development of vaccination against smallpox
to the discovery of penicillin, British biologists
have contributed far more than their share to
the world’s life-saving research discoveries. Ten
Nobel Prizes for Physiology and Medicine
awarded to British research workers indicate
the scope and quality of British scientiﬁc work
under the Act.

WHAT IS THE HISTORY
OF THE BRITISH ACT?

The British Act was a sequel to a petition
to the government signed by Charles Darwin,
Thomas Huxley, Sir William Jenner, Sir Rich-
ard Owen, The President of the Royal College
of Surgeons, the President of the Royal College
of Physicians, and other leaders of science and
medicine. It was presented in conjunction with
reports from the British Association for the
Advancement of Science, and from the British
Medical Association, recommending legislation
which should embody the following principles:
that no avoidable pain should be inﬂicted in
the laboratory, that experiments involving suf-
fering should not be used for teaching pur-
poses, that painful experiments should not be
repeated once the results had been validated,
and that such experiments should only be car-
ried out in properly equipped laboratories. A
Royal Commission was appointed to study the
question, and in 1876, legislation was passed.

The British Act differs from this bill in that
it is a criminal statute; however, since 1876,
there has never been a prosecution under the
Act. This is due to the cooperation of the
British scientiﬁc community.

The administration of the Act has been per-
fected over the years. The inspectorate has the
respect of research scientists. The consideration
and approval of certiﬁcates and the notiﬁca-
tion of the scientist of the decision on his ap-
plication usually take about ten days. Appli-

5

 




 

cations of a controversial nature are judged by
an advisory committee of distinguished scien—
‘ tists. An able and senior scientist may be li-
censed to perform a drastic experiment which
a poorly qualiﬁed applicant would not be per-
mitted to undertake. ‘

IS ALL MEDICAL RESEARCH AIMED AT
THE IDEAL OF SAVING HUMAN LIFE?

According to Life magazine, February 15,
1960, ”Many doctors and professors of med—
icine dispute the value of much of the research
conducted by drug companies. Dr. Frederick
H. Meyers, Associate Professor of Pharmacol-
ogy at the University of California, bluntly
labels it ‘me-too research—the quest for patent-
able variations on things which are already
selling well.’ He adds: 'Extraordinarily few
important new drugs have been originated by
American drug houses. Most of the major dis-
coveries have been made either in other coun-
tries or by independent, non drug-company in-
vestigators here in the U.S.”’ A considerable
number of Federal grants have been awarded
to these companies.

WOULD THIS BILL HAMPER
RESEARCH?

It would not hamper responsible research: a
humane policy in the use of animals, the main-
tenance of proper animal quarters, and the
keeping of accurate records are all habitual to
conscientious scientists. Those scientists who
are not maintaining a decent standard in these
matters could only be beneﬁtted by attaining
one- The use of healthy animals provides
uniform experimental results; confusion, im-
petuosity and experiments which have not been
thought through are less likely to occur if it is
mandatory to submit a plan of the experiments
to be undertaken. Responsible scientists in this
country and in England agree that the quality
of research is raised by such legislation.

6

WOULD SUCH LEGISLATION

INVOLVE AN EXCESSIVE AMOUNT
OF PAPER WORK FOR SCIENTISTS?

Apart from the procedure, which is standard
in efﬁcient institutions, of keeping identiﬁca-
tions and records of animals and their use, the
only paper work necessary would be the writing
of a short annual report and a brief summary
of the scientist’s research plans. Scientists do-
ing federally ﬁnanced research have been sub-
mitting similar summaries to the Bio-Sciences
Information Exchange of the Smithsonian In-
stitution voluntarily since 1954. It would not
be necessary to ﬁll up a separate project plan
for each animal to be used, only one for each
experiment or series of experiments.

WHAT DO SCIENTISTS THINK
ABOUT CRUEL EXPERIMENTS?

There are many different views among scien-
tists. Recently, expressions critical of the pub-
lication of cruel experiments have been receiv-
ing notice. For example, a letter on the ﬁrst
page of Science, January 29, 1960, stated in
part: "In all experiments involving pain or
death to animals, i) the information to be ob-
tained should be worth (in terms of human
beneﬁt or real increase in fundamental scien-
tiﬁc knowledge) the suffering caused, and (ii)
the same or more valuable information should
not be obtainable, with a reasonable amount
of extra effort, by more humane procedures.
These two criteria are practically platitudes.
. . . The second criterion given above was not
observed, and indeed the experiment was not
only immoral but imprecise . . . more exact
information would not have required killing
the animals in so cruel and extended a fashion.
. . . The editors of Science have a moral ob-
ligation to see that they do not encourage need-
lessly painful experimentation by their pub-

, lishing policies."

WO'
THE
USE:

Ye
instit
ceuti
All ;
tions
meni

WH
DEA
EFF j
LEG

Sa
requ
preﬁ
comi
of 5
cont
Such
strai

HO‘
AFF
H
Use]
be r
of 1:
misr
prev
peril
are
the
whe
are
T
guai
utin,
on 2

PLE.
THE
TO .‘

P.

So




WOULD THIS BILL PROTECT
THE MAJORITY OF ANIMALS
USED FOR RESEARCH?

Yes. Almost all medical schools and research
institutions, many hospitals and some pharma-
ceutical houses receive federal research grants.
All animals used for research in these institu-
tions and in the laboratories of US. Govern-
ment agencies would be protected by this bill.

WHY WOULD FEDERAL LEGISLATION
DEAL WITH THIS PROBLEM MORE
EFFECTIVELY THAN STATE
LEGISLATION ?

Satisfactory administration of this bill would
require top-level inspectors of great integrity,
preferably doctors of medicine, and an advisory
committee to the Secretary composed of men
of science qualiﬁed to judge whether certain
controversial project-plans were admissible.
Such administration would place too great a
strain on state governments.

HOW WOULD THIS MEASURE
AFFECT THE TAXPAYER?

He would get a better return for his money.
Useless expenditure of Federal funds would
be markedly reduced 1) by preventing waste
of laboratory animals dying from the effects of
mismanagement, poor housing and care; 2) by
preventing waste of research time when ex-
periments have to be repeated because animals
are unnecessarily lost, and 3) by increasing
the quality and results of biological research
wherever standards with respect to animals
are low. .

The tax-payer has the right to an effective
guarantee that his tax money is not contrib-
uting to the inﬂiction of unnecessary suffering
on animals.

PLEASE WRITE YOUR SENATOR TODAY AT

THE SENATE OFFICE BLDG. AND ASK HIM
TO SUPPORT THIS URGENTLY NEEDED BILL.

For free copies of t/az'r leaflet write to the
Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, N. Y.

8

 




  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
     
    
  
    
   
       

' ‘ SATURDAY, MARCH

   
     

 

'LéaviS" A ttack on*C..P. Snow
"StunsBritain’is Literary World

-
'.'- 990. .- .‘I.’
-

 

, p. Q in."- . -

      
   
  

  
  

 

   
 
   
    

‘: . » . , . ‘. "1 ~ ' -. :53“! 3.3, #3.. I. . ﬁﬂ.ﬁ:.ﬁ}m%’jé 3-.-
Leading Critic Calls Novelist ..
-.~. 5- '

 

. l‘tvPort‘e‘n‘tously Ignorant’é—é-
{Q'Scien’tific Focus. Decried

 

Special to The New York Times.

, LONDON, March 9 ~— Dr.
Frank R. Leavis, one of Brit—
ain’s most distinguished crit-
j; E‘s-stunned the nation’s literary ‘='
field this week with a blistering
attackion Sir Charles, Snow, the
‘atlthor. ., ' , .
, In his farewell address at
' Cambridge University as Read-
i er of ‘ English, ' the 66—year-old
critic called Sir Charles “por-
tentousLy ignorant” ‘and said
his best-selling novels were ‘
“intellectual nullities.”
Less ,. scathing but perhaps of
more significance was Dr. 5
Leavis” criticism of the now ..
famous “two "Cultures-{Ly theme
, that asir Charles introduced in, v;
.1959.- . a

This theme discerﬁs a- dan:
gerous gap- between the mu-
tually indifferent fields of hu—
manities‘and science. The warn-
ing stirred educators and scien—
'tists, and his analysis gained
many adherents.

N eed for Humanities Seen

Warning of “Snow’s designs
on the university,” Dr. Leavis.
emphasized the need for a hu- "
manist center for Cambridge,
rather than the scientific focus
that he suggested was Sir
Charles’ aim. .
' He said that it was not
, enough to be concerned with ad-

~n~vancing technology, that the
advance of science meant a fu-
1e“‘t‘ure of change so momentous
that mankind would need to be
in p’dssession of a “full human-
ity” to ‘cope‘with it;

Dr. Leavis deplored the in;
tellectual climate that had
thrust Sir Charles into the role
of “master mind and sage” on
both sides of the Atlantic.

As a novelist, C. P. Snow
“doesn’t begin to exist,” Dr.
:Leavis said. His books, the,
critic said, must be “composed'
, for him by an electronic brain
called Charlie, into which the
.wins-tructiOns are fed in the form
For chapter headings.” ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 

 

 

A ~

 

Camera Press-Pix
Snow

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ters as a. text for elementary
Criticism. . . V
As a novelist, the controver-
.. , , 'Sir Charles today called 'Dr. sial critic. said, Sir Charles is be
. n . ‘Leavis’ lecture “a personal at- helpless to suggest character in all-
, y tack onv'every aSPGCt Of my life speech. He announces themes Wit
1‘ ' and work.” Those close to him but cannot dramatize them, Dr. prec
said he. was surprised and L‘ 'd , - the
' , as angered. ' - ' - eaVlS Sal - ‘ ~ . f
'y’s «No one. expects to be at- He was,.espec1ally_cr1t1cal o
tacked this way,” Sir Charles “The Affair,” the latest of Sir
,ent. said in“ response to questions. Charles’ series of novels called
133m. :1 (1011113115311 0.01113; 1513137 to~itd “strangers and brothers,” which
. won on wan o res on . ' - - - ,
.Izdﬁigtiﬁ'theplaneyof reason, andpthis’dem.Cts arapidéy changimgélEng

(30%:th afford suchan oppor- land between 1.114: and co .

~ .— ‘ . , Says Cambridge Is Harmed

,“ThemAffairﬁr’ whiCh has also

I '14 -
been 'vmade into ”a Successful

   
 

re_
I

ratl
for
J.
dire
the
Inc
the.
son
2 rep
edu
the

 
 

. .,'t'unity».;""‘ ,. - . . .
. :1091 1‘8th of Leoture Published
s IS ‘

The lecture was delivered
hool privately to students last week
at Downing College in Cam-
bridge. Angered by “garbled re-
ports” in some newspapers, Dr.
Leavis permitted the test to be
printed in this week’s Spectator.

  
  
   
 
  
  
   

tin

hool
,. ublic
' "em;

  
 

 

 

  
    
 

_ has
_W’Q-.

  
  
 
 

The attack involves two 0
Britain’s‘literary giants and is
certain to involve other schol-
rs..~_crlt1csrqaindh ,_ intellectuals.
Battles such as theserlare up

 

 

 

'hty“:
qsses.
‘e _- in
two-

ar

 

     
  
    
  
 
  
    
 
 

(D

.p‘

invite
y prus
ry.

!

 
  
  

“i'lequently, but not often. on
such a high level.

‘ Dr. LeaVis said that the Rede
Lecture in which Sir Charles
first explained his two-cultures
theory exhibited an .“utter lack
of intellectual distinction and an
embarrassing vulgarity of

“bad. writing in such richness”

 

‘said the works dealt with “un-

style.” ,Hesaid that with its He was accused of introducing

iteh'Ould beu‘sed' by schoolmas- cism.

play, - deals with Cambridge
dons. Dr. Leavis suggested that

Sir Charles’ novels had caused
the university much harm. He

relieved and cultureless banal-
ity.” 5- .
Dr. Leavis has long been the
center” of controversies. In the
“Nineteen ”Twenties? ,hemsgiﬂoclged
some by daring 'to"1ectu‘re' on?
D. H. Lawrence. He later gained
a reputation as the foremost ex-
pert on Lawrence.
For years he fought against
the standards of gentlemanly
“belles-lettres” and dilettantism
that dominated English studies.

 

 

 

a “killjoy puritanism” into criti—

 

 

 

  

,. LL . ‘

e.
allc
we]

1‘
Leg
Fir
rep
of i
fall
"thii
ha}

i
cor
wa
soc
J a:
tiv
am
su<
He

  

 

 

 

 

   

we




News and Comment

‘ teiléctual Life in England:
eavis Views C. P. Snow;
toothby Views Leavis

Several Weeks ago the English critic,
F. R. Leavis, delivered an attack on the
scientist-tugied-novelist, C. P. Snow,
which has stirred up about as great a
furor as adiféﬁeary critic can hope to
stir up. Leavis deli ed his broadside
as a sort. of valedictory' On the occasion
of his retirement after a career as a

reader in English literature at Downing ’

College, Cambridge.
Although the press was barred from
. -- lecture, the austere London Times
~ (1 a report, which it ran promi—

other things, that, by Leavis’s standards
at any rate, Snow “is not only not a
genius, he is intellectually as undistin-
guished as it is possible to be. . . . He
doesn’t know what he means, and he
doesn’t know he doesn’t know . . . as
a novelist he doesn’t exist; he doesn’t
begin to exist. He can’t be said to know
what a novel is. . . .”

But, Leavis says, he is not after Snow
himself. “Snow is a portent. He is a
portent in that, being in himself negli-
gible, he has become for a vast public
on both sides of the Atlantic a master-
mind ‘and a sage. His signiﬁcance is
that he has been accepted—or perhaps
"the point is better made by saying ‘cre-

much the part of Snow’s lecture that
accounts for nearly all its fame, the
elaboration of the notion of the two
cultures, the scientiﬁc and the literary,
but the last section of the lecture, where
Snow argues for the urgency of putting
the scientiﬁc revolution to work to speed
the rise in living standards in under-
developed countries.

Leavis picks away a bit at the two
cultures idea, but it seems, like the at-
tack on the novels, to be a peripheral
matter, part of what Leavis apparently
saw as his “duty” to demolish Snow
generally before getting on to what he
really sees as dangerous. Leavis does not
challenge Snow’s essential conclusion
on the need for reforming education
to give nonscientists living in a scientiﬁc
age a clearer idea of what science
is about. And although he dismisses
this part of the lecture as unoriginal,
in an offhand comment, he does not
attempt to deny Snow the kind of
credit the lecture has most widely won:
that is, as a particularly provocative
statement of the need for a reform,
which has helped get things moving, or
moving faster, and therefore a valuable
piece of work despite the criticisms that
can always be applied to efforts to pro-

vide a neat presentation of a compli-

_ a” . its Lead page._-Leavigs ﬂed: he has been created an authorita-
cated’ prOBIem.

consented, in View of the “appear- gi-tive intellect by the cultMOnditions I

ance in newspapers of garbled reports,” ‘

to let the weekly Spectator publish the
full text, which it did on 9 March.

“If conﬁdence in oneself as a master-
mind, qualiﬁed by capacity, insight, and
knowledge to pronounce authoritatively
on the frightem'ngﬂproblems of our
civilization/is" genius,” Leavis began,
“then there can be no doubt about Sir
Charles Snow’s. . . . The peculiar quality
of Snow’s assurance expresses itself in a
pervasive tone; a tone of which one can
say that, while only genius could justify
" it one cannot readily think of genius
adopting it. It is the tone we have (so
"far‘as it can be given in an isolated
sentence) here: “The only writer of
,world-class who seems to have had an
understanding of the industrial revolu-
tion was Ibsen in his old age: and there
wasn’t much that old man didn’t under-
stand.’ Clearly there is still less Sir
Charles Snow doesn’t understand: he
pays the tribute, with authority. We take
the implication and take it the more
surely at its full value because it car-
ries the clan, the essential inspiration,
of the whole self assured performance.
Yet Snow is, in fact, portentiously
ignorant.” This is the beginning, after
which Leavis goes on to explain, among

1114

manifested in his acceptance. . . . The
commentary I have to make on him is
necessarily drastic and dismissive; but
don’t, I beg, suppose that I am enjoy-
ing a slaughterhouse ﬁeld day. Snow, I
repeat, is in himself negligible. My pre-
occupation is positive in spirit. . . . I
have not been quick to propose for my-
self the duty of dealing with him.”

What makes Snow necessary to deal
with, in Leavis’s View, is his famous
lecture on The Two Cultures and the
Scientiﬁc Revolution, which, Leavis tells
us, is an “intellectual nullity” exhibit-
ing “an utter lack of intellectual dis-
tinction and embarrassing vulgarity of
style.” It appalls Leavis that Snow’s
lecture is “continually being referred to
——not only in the Sunday papers—as if
Snow, that rarely qualiﬁed and pro-
foundly original mind, had given trench-
ant formulation to a key contemporary
truth”; and even worse, from Leavis’s
point of View as a teacher of under-
graduates, “was” the realizing, from
marking scholarship scripts, that sixth
form masters were making their bright
boys read Snow as doctrinal, deﬁnitive,
and formative.”

But it turns out, a little surprisingly,
that what really annoys Leavis is not so

A Taste of Jam

What annoys Leavis most is Snow’s
ﬁrm advocacy of “jam” (Snow’s term):
the material things that the scientiﬁc
revolution is bringing to the masses of
people. As the term Snow uses suggests,
Snow is by no means arguing that the
standard of living is all that counts. ~.
But, without explicitly discussing the <
point, Snow leaves no doubt that he
sees no great conﬂict between “more
jam” and whatever other things the race
ought to be pursuing, and further, on
long-term political grounds, argues for
the necessity of the rich nations’ lend-
ing a hand to help the aspiring poor.
Speaking of the opportunities for devel-
opment in the backward nations, Snow
says: “Jam today and men aren’t at
their most exciting; jam tomorrow, and
one often sees them at their noblest.”
Leavis interprets this to suit his pur-
poses and puts Snow in the untenable
position of, according to Leavis, argu-
ing for jam, jam, and nothing but jam.
Leavis is appalled.

“The callously ugly insensitiveness of
the mode of expression is wholly sig-
niﬁcant. It gives us Snow, who is whol-
ly representative of the world, or cul-

SCIENCE‘, VOL. 135

 




ing boundary is determined by the iron
atoms diffusing behind it. Thus, the rel-
ative orientation of the grains would
not be the only factor determining the
speed at which boundaries move and
hence would not be the only factor
determining which grains survive the
competitive growth processes and con-
tribute to the gross texture of the ma—
terial in a primary recrystallized state.

Secondary Recrystallization

Subsequent to primary recrystalliza—
tion the growth of the primary grains
may be selective and the generation of
material of a texture different from that
which previously predominated may
occur. A ﬁne second phase may inhibit
the growth of the primary grains and
produce a discontinuous type of grain
growth in the temperature region in
which the second phase goes into solid
solution. The end state is large grains
that are relatively perfect in terms of
the presence of subgrain structures. In
the case of aluminum of high purity
(99.999 percent), the grains appear to
have a cube plane (13) in the surface
of the sheet and cube directions (13)
that are all parallel to the rolling "direc—7
tion (14) (Fig. 3).

The latter observation raises a ques-
tion concerning the nucleus of a grain
formed through secondary recrystalliza—
tion. The results suggest that grains of
the primary-recrystallization structure
which happen to have a “cube texture”
are nuclei and have sufﬁciently rapid
.growth rates to survive the competi—
~—'7"ve growth processes to the exclusion,
.n the limiting case, of grains with other
orientations. Factors which clearly in-
ﬂuence the competitive growth proc—
esses are those mentioned in the section
on primary recrystallization—(i) im-
purity content, type and distribution of
the impurity; (ii) thickness of the sam-
ple and surface conditions; and (iii) ori-
entation of the grains.

It is likely that the orientation of
the grain is the most important of
these factors for successful growth;
however, it is unlikely that all favor-
ably oriented grains survive the com-
petitive growth processes because of
excessive concentrations of impurities
at some of their boundaries. Thus, al-
though “cube-oriented” grains may act
as nuclei for grains formed through
secondary recrystallization (and thus
must be considered nuclei in some

_ , 30 MARCH 1962

systems), cube orientation alone is not

sufficient to predetermine which pri— ,-

mary grains will survive the competi-‘1
tive growth processes during secondary
recrystallization. The restraining force
of critical amounts of impurities at
some cube boundaries appears never to
allow certain grains to become active
nuclei in secondary recrystallization.

Aust and Rutter ( 15) found that in
zone-reﬁned lead the presence of an
impurity in the solid solution was es-
sential to preferred orientation in the
structure of growing grains after pri—
mary recrystallization. The impurity
must be of a speciﬁc type and. must
lie within a certain concentration range.
The observed effect was related to im-
purity-grain boundary interaction in
which the impurities segregated at cer-
tain grain boundaries and inhibited
their migration. Thus, a preferred orien-
tation was generated by inhibition of
the normal rates of migration of cer-
tain boundaries.

As I have stated, surface conditions

' may contribute to the ﬁnal texture at-

tained after secondary recrystallization.
Walter and Dunn (16), working with
silicon iron. of high purity, found that

, thetype of texture gen_e_ratedin second!

ary recrysMgn depended on the
type of atmosphere- in which the ma-
terial was annealed. A strong (110)
[001] texture was obtained when the
material had a low initial oxygen con—
centration and was annealed in a
vacuum; (100)—oriented grains were
grown when a slightly oxidizing atmos-
phere was used. These workers sug—
gest that the texture generated depends
on the surface energy of the material,
which is the driving force for the
generation of large grains of a certain
orientation in secondary recrystalliza-
tion. Thus, it appears in this case that
for secondary recrystallization the prior
orientation of the grain is only a partial
factor in determining whether the grain
survives the competitive growth proc-
esses.

Walter and Dunn (17) have also in-
dicated that in a 3-percent silicon iron
of high purity, grains having (100)
planes at the surface have lower sur-
face energies than grains with (110),
(111), and (123) surface planes. These
results apply to the initial stages of
secondary recrystallization when the
material is annealed in a vacuum or
in argon. They suggest that the lower
surface energy of the grains with (100)
planes is responsible for their pref-

.4-

erenti‘al/ growth. Grains with (100)

planes parallel to the surface would

have the lowest energies; their energies
would increase as the (100) planes
were tilted from the surface plane.
Thus, the surface energy of the grow-
ing grain plays an important part in
determining the ﬁnal structure in sec—
ondary recrystallization. Any factor

which alters this surface energy, such
as environment or orientation of the
grain, will determine, in part, the ﬁnal
texture of the material.

Summary

It should be apparent that while
there are many complicatin . factors
in softening processes whic \ tend to
render some results inconsistent with
others, progress in understanding these
processes is beinggma’de, and certain
unifying concepts“ ave evolved. Reali-
zation of the differences in the reaction
of metal systems to softening is now
well established. Arbitrary division of
the softening process into distinct stages
has perhaps caused some confusion in
the past, but with the use of
techniques, mechanistic details
)ntire softening process are now .-
unfolded.

References and Notes

. P. H. Thornton and R. W. Cahn, J. Inst.
Metals 89, 445 (1961).

. H. Hu, Trans. Am. Inst. Mining, Met. Petrol.
Engrs. 215, 320 ((1959).

. W. Bollmann, J. \Tnst. Metals 87, 439 (1959).

. P. A. Beck, B. G. Ricketts, A. Kelley, Trans.

Am. Inst. Mining, Met. WEngrs. 215,
949 (1.959).

. M. Avrami, J. Chem. Phys. 7, ii03,_(1939).

6. M. lVlishima, Proceedings 2nd World ‘Metal-
lurgical Congress, Chicago, 1957 (American
Society for Metals, Cleveland, 1958).

. R. A. Vandermeer and Paul Gordon, Trans.
Am. Inst. Mining, Met. Petrol. Engrs. 215,
577 (1959).

. M. Cook and T. L. Richards, J. Inst. Metals
73, 1 (1947).

9. P. A. Beck, M. L. Holzworth, P. R. Sperry,
Trans. Am. Inst. Mining, Met. Petrol. Engrs.
180, 163 (1949). r“

0. T. J. Koppenaal, M. W. Parthasarathi, P. A.
Beck, ibid. 218, 98 (19.60).

. Cube texture is a particular preferred orien-
tation of grains in which a crystallographic
“cube” plane is in the surface of the sheet
and a. “cube direction” lies in the rolling
direction.

. R. E. Green, G. G. Liebmann, H. Yoshida,
Trans. Am. Inst. Mining, Met. Petrol. Engrs.
215, 610 (1959).

.The terms cube plane and cube direction
refer to particular crystallographic planes and
directions of “cubic” metals.

. The rolling direction is the direction in which
a material has been deformed by rolling. This
corresponds to the direction in which a rec-
tangular sheet is lengthened when it passes
through a set of rolls.

.K. T. Aust and J. W. Rutter, Trans. Am.
Inst. -Mining, Met. Petrol. Engrs. 218, 50
(1960).

.J. L. Walter and C. G. Dunn, ibid. 218,
1033 (1960).

, ibid. 218, 914 (1960).

1113

 




ture, to which it belongs. It is the world
in which Mr. Macmillan said—or might,
taking a tip from Snow, have varied
his phrase by sayingw—‘You never had
so much jam’; and in which, if you are
enlightened, you see that the sum of
wisdom lies in expediting the processes
which will ensure the Congolese, the
Indonesians, the Bushmen (no, not the
Bushmen—there aren’t enough of them),
the Chinese, the Indians, their increas—
ing supplies of jam. It is the world in
which the vital inspiration, the creative
dri e, is ‘Ja'rn tomorrow’ (if you haven’t
iday) or’(if you have it today)

jam tomorrow.’ It is the world

‘h, even at the level of the intel-
weeklies, ‘standard of living’ is

a 'terion, its raising an ul—
,,.tima. ‘ tter of wages and sal—
aries \ar'n Cu. can buy with them,
reduced““uSurs ofrrwork, and the tech-
nological resources thatdmake your in-
creasing leisure worth havmg; so that

productivity—the supremely important

thing—must be kept on the rise, at

whatever cost to protecting conservative
habit.

“ "‘ ’t mistake me. I am not preach-

' e should defy, or try to

celerating movement of

ilzatlon the phrase sufﬁci-

explains itself, I hope) that is de-

4 rt‘ermined by advancing technology. . . .

What I am saying is that such a con-

cern is not enough—disastrously not

enough. Snow himself is proof of that,

product as he is of the initial’cultural

consequences of the hill of rapid
change he wants t "see accelerated to
the utmost assimilating all the

world, bringing (he is convinced), pro-
vided we are foresighted enough to per-
'Ve that no one will long consent to
without abundant jam, salvation, and
ting felicity to mankind.”
What does Leavis want us to pursue
‘ .i-t‘eonﬂicts with jam? Or conﬂicts
with Snow’s urgent call for technical
help to the developing countries? Leavis
is unclear, although he says it will in-
volve “creative responses to the new
challenges” of the scientiﬁc revolution:
“something that is alien to either of
Snow’s cultures.” It apparently has
something to do with intuitive responses
apparently as opposed the cut-and-dried
categorizing Leavis seems to see in both
of Snow’s cultures. There is a good deal
of talk about D. H. Lawrence (for Lea-
vis, the great genius of English ﬁction)
and the importance of living. It be-
comes hard to follow: “for the sake of
our humanity—our humanness, for the

30 MARCH 1962

\ -»’~‘
./
\x’

r '

‘

sake of a human future—we must do,
with intelligent resolution and with
faith, all we can to maintain the full
life in the present—and life is growth——
of our transmitted culture.”

Leavis says he wants the university
to serve neither the literary nor scien-
tiﬁc culture but, at heart, to blend all
in “a vital English school.” (“A center
of consciousness and conscience for our
civilization”) For details we have to
wait: “I mustn’t say more now about
what I mean by that. I will only say
that the academic is the enemy and‘ that
the academic can be beaten, as we who
ran Scrutiny [a literary review] for
twenty years proved. We were, and we
knew we were, Cambridge—the essen-
tial Cambridge in spite of Cambridge:
that gives you the spirit of what I had
in mind. Snow gets on with what he
calls the ‘traditional culture’ better than
I do. To impress us with his antiaca-
demic astringency, he tells us of the old
Master of Jesus who said about the

' trains running into Cambridge on Sun-

day: ‘It is equally displeasing to God
and myself.’ More to the point is that
that, I remember, was very much the
attitude of the academic powers when
thi?years ago; L wrote a pioneering
'bo on modern poetry tha/t/
a key ﬁgure and propose-El a new chart,
and again when I backed Lawrence as
a writer.”

Counterattack

The effect of the whole , production
is a little confusing. Snow has greeted
the attack with silence, but the Spec-
tator received a prompt ﬂood of com—
ment from third parties, most of it
anti-Leavis, although not always pro-
Snow. The line of reasoning that
emerges most clearly from Leavis’s
production is (i) Snow is worthless,
(ii) that he has, nevertheless, been
made a great ﬁgure, thus demonstrat-
ing that something is wrong with the
society that has made him a great
ﬁgure, and (iii) (suggested, perhaps
unintentionally by Leavis, in the last
excerpt quoted here) that if the society
were what it should be the Leavises
rather than the Snows would be the
great ﬁgures.

This produced the principal line of
"criticism, that Leavis seems motivated
by jealousy: in the formulation of one
correspondent (Lord Boothby), Leavis
is “spewing out the reptilian venom of
those who have created nothing, and
are concerned only to wreak vengeance
upon those who have, and thus assuage

Maia "

their own sense of frustration.

The sort of criticism exempliﬁed by
Dr. Leavis . . . leaves one with a sense
of desolation. I can tell him what D. H.
Lawrence, the only one who gets a
good word, would have said about it:
. . . ‘To hear these people talk really
ﬁlls me with black fury: they talk end-
lessly, but endlessly—and never, never
a good thing said. They are cased each
in a hard little shell of his own and
out of this they talk words. There is
never for one second any outgoing
feeling and no reverence, not a crumb
or grain of. reverence. I cannot stand
it. I will not have people like this—
I had rather be alone. They make me
dream of a beetle that bites like a
scorpion. But I killed it—a very large
beetle. . . . It is this horror of little
swarming selves I can’t stand.’
H. MARGOLIS.

,9

 

On this side of the Atlantic, the
Supreme Court decision on reappor-
tionment will have an indirect, but very
substantial, long-term effect on the ex-
tent and pattern of United States sup-
port for schools, conservation, and
nearly the entire range of problems
related to or affected by the scientiﬁc
revolution; much more of an effect,
certainly, than anything else that is
likely to happen for a long time. A
review of the dilemma that the courts
faced in dealing with this issue appeared
here on 24 November. Some report on
the nature of the decision and its likely
repercussions will appear next week.

Space Cooperation: U.S., Soviets
Agree To Do Up There What They
Have Not Done Down Here

United Nations, New York. While
the United States and the Soviet Union
made no headway last week in Gen-
eva on such earthly problems as dis-
armament and Berlin, both were em-
phatically agreeing at the United Na-
tions that it is time to team up on outer
space.

This sudden amity has led some cyn-
ics to inquire whether Khrushchev has
proposed to Kennedy that “you go
ﬁrst.” Behind the humor is a natural
curiosity over just what has led the
Soviets to sudden enthusiasm for space
cooperation. They showed no such
response when Kennedy lyrically pro-
posed in his inaugural address: “To-
gether let us explore the stars. . . .”
And their expressions of a desire for

1115

 




cooperation follow a 2-year period in
which they ﬂatly refused even to attend
meetings of the U.N.’s Committee on
the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space. Once
having agreed to attend, however, they
have shown considerable gusto for joint
efforts.

The spark for Soviet expression of
interest appears to have been provided
by Glenn’s orbital ﬂight, which drew
a congratulatory message from Khrush-
chev, accompanied by the observation
that “if our countries pooled their ef-
forts” numerous beneﬁts would accrue
to mankind. Kennedy promptly took up
the proposal and suggested ﬁve speciﬁc
areas of cooperation: weather forecast-
ing, magnetic ﬁeld studies, space medi-
cine, communications, and exchange of
radio tracking stations; the President
also proposed discussions of joint efforts
in manned and unmanned exploration
of the moon and other celestical bodies.

Cost a Clue

Khrushchev, in a reply last week,
declared that he fully agreed with the
President and provided some clue to
his motivations by noting that space ex-
ploration is “quite costly.” He then
tossed in three other possible areas of

cooperation? an agreement‘for assistanCe '

in the search for and rescue of disabled
spacecraft, a study of the legal prob-
lems of space, and, ﬁnally, an agree-
ment to restrict experiments that might
interfere with peaceful space explora-
tion.

An uncharitable view of the Premier’s
response might interpret the last point
as a reference to this country’s Project
West Ford, which is intended to orbit
a band of copper ﬁlaments for experi-
ments in jam-proof communications.
West Ford, a subject of considerable
interest to America’s widely dispersed
military forces, has been assailed by the
Soviets as a sort of pollution of outer
space for nefarious purposes.

Nevertheless, Khrushchev’s response
to Kennedy was remarkably free of
Cold War jargon, and While in the past
the Premier has made all manner of
things contingent upon “complete and
general disarmament,” he merely
pointed out, in restrained fashion, that
“it seems obvious to me that the scope
of our cooperation in the peaceful ex-
ploration of space, just as the choice of
the directions themselves, along which
such cooperation will be possible, de-
pends to some extent on the settlement
of the disarmament problem.”

The Soviet Premier has given the

1116

West every reason to be conditioned to
sudden and unexpected changes in the
international weather, but his reasonable
words, and the amiable attitude of the
people who represent him on the Space
Committee, have led American space
officials and diplomats to a feeling of
optimism. This is accompanied by the
hope that if a fairly signiﬁcant Soviet-
American space program can be de-
veloped, it might absorb some of the
energies devoted to the Cold War, as
well as give the two countries experi-
ence in a large-scale cooperative effort.

(The only public note of disharmony
so far was provided by Senator Cape-
hart, Republican of Indiana, who took
a look at the evidence of a budding
space romance and warned (i) it’s a
Russian trick and (ii) the American tax-
payers will never stand for it.)

Outside of the cost of space explora-
tion, the reasons for the sudden Soviet
willingness to talk have not been dis-
closed by the Soviets, and therefore
whatever 18 to be offered must be cigar-
ly labeled as speculation. For {.115 “ﬁn-
certain art of Kreml iology, therefore,
the Soviets’ sudden affability presents a
rich vein. The U. N. Space Committee,
originally formed in 1958 as an 8-
hatio , was 1mmo‘5ﬁiie‘d’ by
Soviets thrkh‘ \their insistence on a
“troika” division—East," West, and
neutral—with all decisions to be made
on the basis of “agreement” rather than
by majority vote.

American domination of the committee.
The United States, however, refused to
go along with this proposal and insisted
on adherence to the U.N.’s majority
vote procedure. The Russians then re-
fused to have anything to do with the
committee, and maintained this in-
sistence through the following two years,
despite an effort to win their support
by enlarging the committee to 24 na-
tions and thus broadening its political
base. With the Soviets—representing 50
percent of the world’s space powers——
refusing to attend, the committee re-
alistically spared.itself even the labor of
calling meetings.

NASA Reaps Good Will

Meanwhile, a considerable amount
of international space cooperation was
being carried on by the United States,
in sharp contrast to the rigid security
which the Soviets maintained around
their space establishment. The National
Aeronautics and Space Administration,
in cooperation with the US. Weather

The troika was .I-
needed, the Russians argued, to avoid

Bureau, put the Tiros weather satellite
system into operation and made its
beneﬁts available to the world. At the
same time, NASA offered to launch
into orbit scientiﬁc payloads prepared"
by other nations (the ﬁrst, a United
Kingdom satellite, will be launched
within the next few weeks); and NASA
established 100 felloWships for foreign
students to study space science and en-
gineering in this country. In one way
or another, some 40 countries bear
some working relationship to this (na-
tion’s space program, including many
whose citizens help man N‘ASA’s‘s W
of tracking stations around the w
NASA also adher’éd to th'ei pol‘ic
wide-open press and -elevision cov

of American launt- ings, 1 or

that assures disaste‘i‘ for

when things go wrongfa

the ﬁrst Vanguard orbitéa. a og-nyif’:
one that pays off 1 enormous<> i23* will
and admiraticm/lﬁen things 11.91111, as
they most spectacularly have on Amer-

716a ’3 three manned ﬂights.

While the Soviet political stance
barred cooperative efforts with this
country, American space specialists
noted a keen interest in inte
cooperation among their Sc”
parts. Western 11 ~ 1
space specialists produced the co --
sion that the Soviet politicians, con-
vinced that their country’s superiority
in space weight-lifting had put Russia
far ahead of the West, paid little heed
to thei1 scientists’ argument that the
West was SHperior in other phases of
space technology: i tru mentation, con-

trol, and miniaturizatio“\.a\mong them.

Soviet Conﬂict

The strongest suggestion of a confli.‘
between the scientists and the politicia
occurred in mid-November—about
weeks before the Soviets suddenl
switched their stand and agreed to e
their boycott of the UN. space com-
mittee. The November occurrence in-
volved a meeting in Washington on
satellite weather forecasting to which
NASA and the Weather Bureau invited
all interested nations. The purpose of
the meeting was to provide other na-
tions with procedures for utilizing the
information from the still-rudimentary
weather satellite system and to develop
methods for broad use of the Tiros data
when the system comes into full opera-
tional use during the next few years. In
response to the invitation, the chief of
the Soviet Hydro-Meteorological Serv-
ice cabled that he would send two rep-

SCIENCE, VOL. 135

J.
"\J

V

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 EAST 17TH STREET
NEW YORK 3, N. Y.

OREGON 5-1069

December 30, 1963

Dear Members,

The twelfth annual report of the Animal Welfare Institute is enclosed.
we wish to express deep appreciation to you for your support of the work
and to ask for your help now in obtaining funds for the coming year's work.
Much work is done on a volunteer basis, but the AWI publications must be
paid for and distributed. No other organization or agency provides comparable
services to extend help to laboratory animals—-the least protected group of
animals in our country today.

For example, our government spends over a billion dollars a year on
biological research; it provides many millions of dollars for construction
of research buildings, yet the onlv organization providing a collection of
photographs and floor plans of comfortable quarters for these animals is the
Animal welfare Institute whose total annual budget last year amounted to
$32,146.79.' The manual, "Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals" is put
together by hand by unpaid volunteers. It is kept up-to—date with new
supplements (five have been published, and a sixth is in process of being
collected). Scientific institutions from every part of the country write to
the AWI for their free copy, 515 of which were prepared and sent out last year
in addition to 224 copies of the last supplement to laboratories which already
had the earlier supplements and wanted to add the new one.

Many a dog owes his release from perpetual confinement to a small cage,
to this publication, for this is the means through which administrators,
architects, and scientists have the best information on decent animal quarters
collected for them. Educational work such as this cannot take the place of
effective legislation, but it is a vital part of the whole effort to prevent
the vast amounts of needless suffering now being undergone by animals in our
laboratories. Ybu and your friends can help through contributions, and we

earnestly hope that you will.

Sincerely, ";;f£~“‘\
”(Jim-f) ’y‘,‘.v'".? 7 'x .4-""“ 3'” ,
f ‘I ‘ “I" I , I i ’0 4 .

Christine Stevens
President

 




din ill unhinglsn ideal

 

 

 

PAPER SUNDAY, JUNE 22, 1958

T cm port/sing W 1th Cruelty

It is a real misfortune that the Senate Agricul-
ture Committee, yielding to the pressure of a
number of big meat packers, reported on Wednes-
day. a cynical bill calling for a two-year study
of humane methods of slaughter in American
packing houses. The committee had before it a
moderate practical measure, a companion to the
Poage bill passed by the House of Representatives,
which would have precluded United States Gov-
ernment purchases of products from slaughter-
houses emplOying inhumane techniques. The bill
thoroughly deserved the Agricdlture Committee’s
approval. We hope it will be substituted for the
_ $2239” and evasive measure reported by the

"ljo‘fnmittee when the issue comes to the ﬂoor.

There is no need whatever for a two-year study
of humane slaughter techniques. They have been
studied and perfected by universities; they have
been tested in operation by a number of progres-
sive meat packers; they have long been in use—-

 

MIAMI, FLA.

NEWS
Circ. 0. H9269 . s. l25.926

JUN. 2i}. 195:3

 

Cruelty In Our Society

The Humane Slaughter Bill v'will
soon come Before tHE‘S‘éﬁate .for fi-
nal action. No sensible objections to
its passage have been presented.

The Department of Agriculture
has yielded to the pressure of the
American Meat Institute in calling
for further study of the bill -.- an
old and suremethod of killing need-
ed legislation. But with humane
slaughter already the rule in Amany
of .our best packing houses and in
most European countries, what is
there to study? .

The only expense to the packers
will be cost of conversion from bar-
baric wheels and stickers to a me-
chanical stunning device or anes-
thetic equipment. Screams from
bleeding animals, which are often

ing vat, would arouse the compass
sion of any but the most calloused in»-
dividuals. The agony can be avoided
by only a small cash outlay.

The only unselfish objection to the
bill, which passed the House last Feb»-
ruary, comes from Orthodox Jewish
groups. But the bill specifically states
that the law will not apply to re-
ligious Observances.

The fact that legislation is even
necessary to require kindness which
should be voluntary is a sad com-
mentary on our supposedly civ1hzed
society. Let’s end this cruelty now.

and required by law-«in civilized European coun-
tries. They are based on the-simple principle
that an animal ought to be rendered unconscious
before it is killed—instead of being put to death
by the sadistic methods still widely used in the
United States. Abandonment of unnecessary

cruelty to animals in this enlightened land is long
overdue. '

dropped still conscious into a scald-

 

THE NEWS-GAZETTE
Champaign-Urbana --— The Home Of T he U

, niversity of Illinois

“0.-“-

-~ . WEQWGIE 25, 1953. .24
HARTFORD CONN. COURANT
June 28, 1958

Pages

' Ellender's Bill Wong Only
Delay Humane Slaughter

 

Humane Slaughtering Is
Blocked in Committee

Senator William Purtell once remarked that he
had never seen anything evoke so much mail as
the proposed humane slaughter bill. Other senators;
have had the same experience. The champions _o
legislation to modernize America’s slaughtering meth-
ods were gratified when the Iiouse 'of Represent:-
tives passed the bill without killing it w1th°amen l
ments. The bill went next to the Senate Agricultura
Committee where, as everyone knew.“ the packingl
interests waited with their heaviest me. The bil
didn’t have a chance. And while committee chair-
man Senator Allen Ellender and his. colleagues
looked on, the packers trimmed the bill to their
taste. The resulting bill provides for study, and

' . more.
nom’l‘xhéis happened in the same committee two years
ago. The committee members didn’t set foot in 3
slaughterhouse. Nor would they listen to a soun
film about it. No wonder the senators voted Ill-5 to
pass the study bill. Their fellow Congressmen in the
House, on the other hand, had looked In on.
slaughtering techniques. They saw the cruel and they
saw the humane, and voted for the humane. That
the members of the agricultural committee were 1n-
different to the bill‘s purpose speaks poorly of them.
The facts, had they been given a hearing. would
have won out. But the committee heard only a few
packers who did not want to be bothered With

U , .
Challieeihg a small group, these packers have Iavonded
battle in the public forum. And so efforts like that
of religious groups and the General Federation of
Women’s Clubs went virtually uncontested, except 1n
Senatorial chambers. Here the powerful members of
the American Meat Institute worked lard. They sold
the right senators on the idea that. changing “to
humane methods would be costly; that it was nothing
to jump into; and that it should be studied. Ain
this worked. What is most disappomtmg 1s tie;
much of the support given by other senators ha

little effect.

Adoption of legislation to protect animals
from needless cruelty in slaughterhouses will be
delayed for at least two moreyears if a bill ap-
proved by the Senate Agriculture Committee be-
comes law.

. Earlier this year the House passed a bill '
qumng the use of specified humane slaughter
methods by all plants selling meat to the federa
government after Dec. 31,'1959.

. Sen. Allen J. Ellender (D—La.) said the bill
approved by the committee he heads is aimed at
making humane'slaughter compulsory after the

wbjeCt has been thorough] studied b .
scientists and experts y 5’ federal

The measure
study. the secret
mend legislation

 

 

provides that after a two-year
ary of agriculture must recom-

making the use of approved
slaughter methods mandatory for all livestock
and poultry plants.

Humane societies and other groups have beenI
gressmg for adoption of the House bill with its

an on government purchases from lants taili '
to adopt humane methods. p ng
Some meat packers a
e

 

nd the administration
esearch ap

. as mer
stallmg tactic. there 3y”:

need for two years additional stud

. y of the hu-
mane methods whrch are already in use in some
N ,

 

 

American plants and required by law in Western
Europe.

The vast majority of Americans are likely to
agree that livestock should.be protected against
unnecessary pain and suffering. \

If a law is needed to accomplish this humane
purpose it should be enacted as promptly as'
possible in a country which makes much of its
concern for civilized ways of doing things but
*which lags behind some European countries in
,requiring humane processes in its meat plants.

 

 




MONDAY, JUNE 30, 1958. FOUND‘ED 1826.

Elm dentin: germinal ‘

MARK ETHRIDGE, Publisher.

 

Kindness to Animals

BARRY BIN‘GHAM, Editor-in-Chief. ‘

Thursday, June 26, 19581?” TUSCALOOSA NEWS

511011th ReqUil‘e .. Setback Fer Humane Slaughter

G - ' ' ?
Further Study
UPPORTERS of the Humane Slaughter Bill
have lost a battle, but "they are determined.
that they have not lost a war. Their setback
came in the Senate Agriculture Committee. It
bore the personal stamp of their long-time op-

ponent, SenatorELLRNDER of Louisiana, who is
the committee chairman. '

The voting line-up was a curious one. This

measure, which ‘would oblige meat packers do~

ing business with the government to use humane

methods in killing animals, does not seem to

have a partisan coloration, nor does it imply any .
liberal-conservative division. The Senators who

defeated the bill in committee,nhowever, are the

ones who often Combine to kill liberal legisla-

tion.

This committee bloc consisted of Democratic
Senators ELLENDER, JOHNSTON, HOLLAND, EAST-
LAND and TALMADGE, all from the Deep South,
combined with Republican Senators YOUNG,
THYE, HICKENLOOPER, MUNDT and SCHOEPPEL,
all Northern conservatives. Five Senators stood
out against this majority of 10. They were Dem-
ocrats HUMPHREY, SYMINGTON and PROXMIRE,
plus Republicans AIKEN and WILLIAMS. A

The SOciety for Animal Protective Legisla-V"

tion still hopes to bring the bill to a vote onthe
floor of the Senate, despite the adverse commit
tee action. This is a‘ difficult but a possible ma-
neuver. The Humane Slaughter advocates do not-
accept for a moment the committee’s recom-
mendation for “further ,study” of slaughter
methods. They point out that‘this has been the
excuse for inaction used by the packing indus-
try ever since the late 19205.

No Time for Surrender

The bill’s supporters are certainly not going
to give up what to them is a‘crusade for decency
and humanity. They had a notable success this
spring when their bill passed the House of Rep--
resentatives by a rousing voice vote. Before that,
the House Agriculture Committee had made a
personal inspection of slaughterhouse practices.
and had come out disgusted and convinced. The
committee vote was 25 to three for. the bill.

The Senate Agriculture Committee failed to ‘

follow this good example of studying the prob-
lem at first hand in the slaughter pens. They“
stayed instead in the committee room, listening
to Spokesmen for most of the packing hauses.

The opposition of the packers to a' reform
bill is surely based on the pocketbook. They
would, have'to buy and install some new equip-
ment, at considerable expense, if the bill went
through. Hormel 8: Co. has already inStalled
the recommended Carbon dioxide gas tunnel for
painleSs hog slaughter, and the use, ofthe cap:

tive bolt pistol for instant stunning of otheranis ' 'l

mals. The company asserts that it has. saved
money, quite aside from-humane considerations.
But the old guard of the industry is unwilling
to try such a change of ancient practices. 7
They have fought a delaying action for three
decades, always asking for more time to “study”

the new methods. In view of their record, there.

is no reason to respect their intentions in this
matter.,

Senator ELLENDER reports that he received.
more than 20,000 letters, from supporters of the .
legislation. They were not enough to shake his -
deeply entrenched opposition. Letters may still ’

have their effect on other members of the Sen-
ate, however, who are sensitive to public
opinion, and also to the still, small voice of their
own conscience when they think of needless
torture of dumb animals who cannot plead their
own cause.

Supporters of a humane slaughter

bill for the meat packing industry
received a setback this week when
the Senate Agriculture Committee

amended the measure pasSed by'

the ‘ House to ’make it a
measure. '

The bill was dealt“ with similarly

study

' 'by this Senate in 1956. This year,
. fhowever, widespread interest
" support was

and
generated for a
humane slaughter bill and the
House passed a measure requiring

"the use of humane methods by all

packers wishing to’ contract with
the government. '
Strangely enough, the United
States is one of the few civilized
countries which does not require
humane slaughter methods in its
packing plants. Congressmen have
reported. receiving more mail on
this particular piece. of legislation

this year than on any other issue
during the past two years. .

Proponents of this measure now
face a rear- guard action- The
chances are that the. amended.
measure, if brought before the
Senate, will be passed unless there
is an all-out effert by proponents
of-the House-passed bill to overturn
the ‘2-‘1 margin therevised bill
obtained in the Senate Agriculture
Committee. -

Supporters of the hum an.
slaughter legislation are urging the
defeat of the bill reported favorably
by the Senate committee and an
amendment on the floor to get it
back in the form it was. passed by
the House.

To this end it is urged that
'member's of the Senate be
contacted in order that the public
sentiment on the measure can be
made known.

- Committee, of which Sen. Allen J.

had been amended to require the

 

THE ANN ARBOR NEWS

Humane Slaughter Bill
Can Still Be Saved In Senate

APPARENTLY there is one more

chance for the Senate to join
the House in enacting long over-
due legislatibn to require humane
slaughter. of meat animals. That
will Come when an amended House
bill reaches the floor of the Senate
in July. .

Here, it seems. to us, is an ex-
ampl’e of how a powerful lobby can
thwart the wishes. of the American
people. The House recently ap-
. proved a bill that» would require hu-
mane slaughter methods in packing
plants, methods that already are
being used by some packers. Ap-
proval by the Senate would have

.meant the end of a 27-year fight to
bring American standards up to
those of a. number of European
countries. Humane methods re-
.quire that animals ‘be rendered in-
sensible by shock before they are
killed. The House bill went into the
Sen-ate Agriculture and Forestry

Ellender, Louisiana Democrat, is
chairman, and when it was report-
ed‘ out last week ”the proponents of
humane slaughter- methods had
been dealt another blow. The bill

Secretary of Agriculture to study
slaughtering methods for the next
two years. Another “study” period,
another delay in a long history of

Tuesday, June 24, 1958

 

EATPACKERS, led by the

A m e r 1 ca 11 Meat Institute,
strongly oppose mandatory slaugh-
tering rules. Senators going along
with them by voting for. another de-
lay were Ellender; Olin D. John-
ston (D), S. C.; S. L. Holland (D),
Fla.; James O. Eastland,(D), Miss.;
Herman E. Talmadge (D), Ga.;

Milton R. Young (R), N. D.; Ed-
Ward J. Thye (R), Minn.; Bourke
B‘.’ Hickenlooper (R), 1a.; Karl E.
Mundt (R), S. D., and Andrew F.
Schoeppel (R), Kas.

Voting for humane slaughter
were: Hubert H. Humphrey (D),
Minn.; Stuart Symington (D), Mo.;
William Proxmire (D), Wis.; George
D. Aiken (R), Vt., and John J. Wil-
liams (R), Del.

If the thousands of Americans
who have campaigned for this hu-
mane legislation year after year
keep up the barrage of. letters that
should by now have made their
wishes unmistakably clear to Con-
gress, the bill passed by the House
may yet be saved. It can be amend-
.ed on the Senate floor to restore the
language of the Original ”measure.
It should be restored and the Sen-.
ate committee’s action overriden,
so that needless cruelty to anmials
may soon behalted in a country

 

 

delays on the legislation.

that prides itself on being civilized

 

 




NASHVILLE, TENN.
TENNESSEAN
Circ. D. |l6.256 - s. 200.558

. JUN 261958

 

There Was Plenty
Of Data, Senator

FFORTS to get humane slaughter
legislation enacted
strange turn in a senate committee.

One measure, passed overwhelmingly
in the house last February, provides that
after Jan. 1, 1960, humane methods must
be used by packers who make contracts
with the federal government. Suchmeth-
ods would include instant stunning of ani-
mals with a mechanical instrument or
anesthetization with .carbon dioxide.

Both methods have been used on mil-
lions of animals by packers who are vol-
untarily humane, but more millions are
either hammered into insensibility or
stuck with knives and let bleed.

A great deal has been written about
humane slaughter and there are a "(number
of examples of packers who use more hu-
mane methods successfully. House discus-
sion brought out much information about
humane methods.

So it is strange that the senate agri-
culture and forestry committee approved
an amended bill to require the secretary
of" agriculture to draft legislation setting
forth what constitutes humane-slaughter-
ing.
said there was insufficient information
available to write regulations.

That must have come as a surprise to
myriad humane societies, women’s clubs,
Church and farm groups whith support
humane .slaughter methods. ' All would
have been pleased to make available to
Mr. Ellender reams and reams of informa-
tion, including the successful methods
used by voluntarily humane packers.

It is hoped the committee will recon-
sider its action and vote out a bill similar
to that passed by the house.

CHARLOTTE, N. c. News
JUN 2 5 l958

ve ta en a'

Chairman Allen Ellender (D-La.)

T~YORK

vv - dl'tihune

FOUNDED APRIL 10, 1841

"Spread the Truth”—Hon.4.cs enema!

W9: “mm: Horace Greeley, Whitelaw Reid, Ogden Reid, Whitelaw Reid; HERALD, James Gordon Bennett Sr. & Jr.

 

- Wednesdayyluly 9, 1958

 

The Senate Must Save
Humane Slaughter

Animals can feel pain. as keenly as
human'beings'and are equally prey
to" fear and terror. But they can’t
speak Or vote, and therefore have no
inﬂuence in Congress. Which is about
the only available explanation why
the Humane Slaughter Bill, after
passing the House, has been put on
ice by the Senate Agriculture Com-
mittee on the ﬂimSy pretext that it
requires “further study” of slaughter-
ing procedures. ,

Further study} For thirty years, this
has been the excuse advanced for
delay by some of the big meat packers.
The House Agriculture Committee
made a personal tour of the slaughter-
hOuses and was immediately convinced
that changes were necessary. The
Senators, however, stayed in Wash-
ington, refusing even to see a film
depicting the slaughtering of hogs.

Just what do the advocates of
humane slaughter want? All they
want is the introduction Of methods
torender animals‘ins‘ensible to pain
before they are butchered, either by
electric stunning or by carbon dioxide
gas. The objection from packing
houses 'seems to be that these methods
would be too expensive. But'one ﬁrm
that has adopted them, Hormel 8:. 00.,
says that they are saving it money.
So' it would appear that humane

aughtering is to the advantage of
the meat packer, quite apart from
conSiderations of common decency.

Fortunately, supporters, of humane
slaughter are determined not to let
the issue die. They have worked hard
for their; objective, especially in the
last, two years. We earnestly hope that
the full Senate will do something to
save this bill as a working measure
before Congress adjourns.

As Subtle As A BlOwOn The Head '

O PUT IT bluntly. thelmmane-.slaugh-

termbill was bludgeoned in the Sen-
ate Agriculture Committee last week
with the kind of vehemence the meat
packers usually reserve for dumb ani-
mals.

Rather than approve legislation simi-
lar to the Poage Bill passed by the
House of Representatives, committee
members voted for a two-year “study”
of painless slaughtering methods.

Both the American Meat Institute and
the Department Of Agriculture were lob-
bying vigorously for “study” legislation.
It is a familiar dodge‘.‘Similar,delaying
tactics have sentenced great bundles of
worthy legislation to a lingering death in
the past.

The bill is expected to reach the Sen-
ate floor in July. Its amendment, to
return to it the effective language of
Rep. Poage‘s bill, would mark the begin-
ning of the end of slaughterhouse cruel-
ties to animals in the United States.

There is no need for any additional
“study” of humane slaughtering meth-
ods. They have already been studied in
enormous detail and perfected with great
care by U. S. universities. Painless kill-
ing methods are in use and, in fact, re-

quired by law 'in civilized European
countries. A few U. S‘. packers find these
methods both economical and efficient.
_ It is plainly/“absurd to postpone action
in the United States merely to confirm
the proposition that cruelty is cruel.
All-that proponents of humane slaugh-
ter legislation want is a system in which
the animal is rendered quietly uncon-
scious before it is killed. It is a reason
able enough goal in a.civilized society.

CHARLESTON, s. C.

NEWS & COURIER
Ciro. D. 50.7l7 - S. 60.533

JUN 28 1958
Painless Slaughter

ﬁbe humane slaughter bill was
given a mere ea in e Senate
Agriculture Committee last week.
The committee declined to approve
legislation designed to bring an end
to slaughterhouse cruelty-to ani-
mals. .The members voted for a
two-year study of painless slaugh-
tering methods.

Maybe the committee believes
that the people of this country
are the dumb animals. The subject
of humane slaughtering laws has
been discussed for-years. Either
the United States does or doesn’t
need such laws. A Congressional
study of this problem is a waste Of
the taxpayers’- money. One of the
most effective painless way of kill-
ing legislation in Congress is to stu-
dy it to death.

 

YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO—

VINDICATOR
Circ. D. 98.352 . s. 140.293

JUN 2 4 195,8
End Packing House Cruelty 1

Because comparatively few Americans know
about the inhumane methods used in slaugh-
tering the animals Which eventu'ally'Eﬁup‘ply
their tables With meat, they have failed to
give sufficient support to legislation now be-
fore Congress to eliminate unnecessary
cruelty in the packing houses.

Last week two House measures were de-
feated in a Senate committee which re-
ported out a “study” bill, instead. The legisla-
tion sought by adherents of humane slaugh-
tering would have established this as the
country’s public policy, requiring that the
federal government and its agencies buy meat
only from packing plants using humane
methods.

The “study” bill is obviously a delaying
measure, asked by the American Meat In-
stitute and the Department of Agriculture. It
proposes that the Secretary of Agriculture
study slaughtering methods for two years.

There is no need for this. ‘The carbon di-
ox1de tunnel and a number of types of pistols
for making animals insensible to pain have
been fully developed and have been used by
some leading packers during the last few
years. ,

The humane organizations charge that the
meat industry’s efforts to kill an effective
humane slaughter law are strikingly similar
to the industry’s Opposition to the Meat In-
spection Act early in the century.

There is no point in continuing slaughter-
house cruelty any longer. There is no real
economic reason for it. The “study” bill is
scheduled to reach the Senate floor next
month. Advocates of humane methods should
demand its defeat‘and restoration of the

 

Compulsory Humane Slaughter Bill.

 

 




 
 

 
 
 
 

illlllllllll

 

'lllllllllllllllllll

il

l

1,,

.II

D
/, .
/

\‘\\

\\ \\

S‘s-carp s—uowuw '

A Merciless 5 tall

F a member of. the Senate Agriculture

Committee should look out his Window

today and see a small boy tormenting a
cat we’ll bet he’d spring into action.

But, oddly, the committee’as a whole
seems calm when it is called_to their
attention that grown-up boys kill steers,
lambs and pigs in painful, bloody and
needless brutality.

The House passed a much—needed
humane slaughter bill months ago.

The Senate committee has now tried
to slit the bill’s throat—but substituting
one which calls for a pointless two—year
study of packing methods. Hasn’t this
condition been “studied” enough?

This proposal to “study” for two more
years is a merciless stall. The brutality
is proven. The economic practicality of
humane methods has been demonstrated
by such progressive packers as Cudahy,

A .SCRIPPS-HUW-ARD NEWSPAPER n
"Gwo'ugm and the would will find their own way.

John T. O’Rourke, Editor

Matt Meyer, Busineu Manager

DI. 7-7771

month. By Mail:
2 month. 824 a tell

THURSDAY. JULY 3. 1958

1013 13th 51‘. NW. (Zone 5)

litan Washin ton:
gum¥::a’o$3.75: 6 mont S. $7.50: oer vent. 815.

B 0 :1 1328:: week: 81.22
, or 0 ”herein: Mail:

Reg. D. 8. Fat. 011.

Hormel and Oscar‘Mayer .& 00., all of
whom use efficient and painless slaugh-
tering techniques.

It serves not the American public—-
which has supported the humane bill by
a caScade of letters—but the selfish 1n-
terests of the AmericanMeat Institute
and the institute’s pals in the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, the champions of
indifference and inertia.

It might be worth while for, the com-
mittee members to take a tax-paid tour
of the worst slaughter houses and then
think the whole thing over, or, better
still, take a trip (i. e., junket). to the
many countries where the situation that
exists here has been outlawed for many
years.

The rest of the Senate, we trust, won’t
need such a blood-shot view to reject
this stall and to insist that the House
bill be brought up and passed.

 

TOLEDO BLADE. June 30,1953

Stair-On Humane‘Slh'U'ghter.

HE SENATE Agriculture Committee has re-
ported out a bill directing the Secretary
of Agriculture to study methods of slaughtering
meat animals and come up within. a couple of
years with legislation that would set forth what
would constitute a humane system of slaughter
in American packing houses. The committee
contends that there isn’t enough information
available to legislate now on the, subject.
We are not impressed with this action or the
reason for it. For years the humane slaughter

 

issue has been thoroughly debated and. a wealth ‘

of information is available. Unnecessarily brutal
and clumsy slaughter practices have been docu-’
mented. So has the successful use .by packers
abroad, and some in this country, of more ef-
fective, relatively painless modern killing meth-.
ods. To 'say now that further study appears
necessary is simply a way of postponing action
on a reform that the humane societies have
demonstrated is needed and feasible and which,

1vze think, has the support of the public behind

The House of Representatives in February
passed a bill which. would compel pa'ckers- who
sell meat to the Federal Government to kill
animals by humane methods. This dees not'go
the full length that the humane societies would
like but” they approve, it as a long step. in the

rightdirection. The Senate would do well to
override 'its- Agriculture Committee“ and" enact
the law as approved by the House.

  

THE BOSTON HERALD

stAY, JULY 12,1958

A PAGE EIGHT-

No Time for Pain

..-.Every day in whieh the Senate-

délllies'f withthe Humane Slaugh-
ter-33in- isz-‘one more day in which
afgi‘ifnals die cruelly and in pain.
Brig after passing the House by
an: overwhelming margin in Feb
ruary the bill has been side-
tracked; supposedly because the
S e n at 6., Agriculture Committee
needsf‘time to study: slaughter pro-
cedures. -

"'Ilhe : (Committee. required , time,
in 1956, too,'w:h‘en the bill met
an identical end. A House, Com-
mittee i then toured slaughterhouses
observing the methods that pre-
veiledwil‘he tour was a horrify-
mg; revelation , of man’s indiffer-
encé‘to the. fate of other Species.

IsijThei .HWSE Committee spon-
somd.,a bill requiring the employ-

ment of humane methods by pack- \

ens-wishing to contraCt with the
government. It was passed by
veiﬂe vote.- _

M But in the Senate Agriculture
Committee, which did no slaughs
tel‘l’iorise: inspection, the senators
reﬁised even, to ‘see a sound- , ﬁlm
graphically. depicting routine pig

slghghter as practiced on more.

than80' million pigs a year.

Instead, by a vote of 10-5, they
passed a “study” bill.

This means that the senators,
who were too squeamish to watch
hogs being massacred on a Screen,
could with serenity and good con-
science condemn millions of ani-
mals to a ghastly fate. But the
bill had this feature as amended:
the Senators didn’t have to see
theanimals die.

Perhaps it, is easier and‘ more
pleasant not to have the hideous
facts of life -. paraded before one.
The senators do not have to see
the Wildly rolling eyes of shackled
animals, . the welter " of bloody
trails, ”the stagger of half-stunned
cattle closing with the knife. Nor
do they have to listen to the
screams and bellows of animals
in agony. Life, in fact, can con.
tinue on its cheerful round.~

The ﬁrm of Hormel ‘& Com-
pany, which has adapted humane

. butchering methods, reports that

swift and efﬁcient‘techniqﬁes have
proved economical. No- packer.

Will go bankrupt because humane
slaughtering methods prevail. But i
at least 10 senators are convinced
that all’s right, with the world
and business is business.

 




NASHVILLE, TENN.
TENNESSEAN
Circ. D. II6.256 - S. 200,558

 

. JUN 261958

There Was Plenty
Of Data, Senator

FFORTS to get humane slaughter,
legislation ‘enacted ,
strange turn in a senate committee.

One meaSure, passed overwhelmingly
in the house last February, provides that
after Jan. 1, 1960, humane methods must
be used bypackers who make contracts
with the federal government. Suchmeth-
ods would include instant stunning of ani-
mals with a mechanical instrument or
anesthetization with .lcarbon dioxide.

Both methods have been used on mil-
lions of animals by packers who are vol-
untarily humane, but more millions are
either hammered into insensibility or
stuck with knives and let bleed.

A great deal has'been written about
humane slaughter and there are a number
of examples of packers who use more hu-
mane methods successfully. House discus-
sion brought out much information about
humane methods.

So it is strange that the senate agri-
culture and forestry committee approved
an amended bill to require the secretary
of" agriculture to draft legislation setting.~
forth what constitutes humanelslaughter-
ing. Chairman Allen Ellender (D-La.)
said there was insufficient information
available to write regulations.

That must have come as a surprise to
myriad humane societies, women’s clubs,
church and farm groups which support
humane slaughter methods. ' All would

have been pleased to make available to,

Mr. Ellender reams and reams of informa-
tion, including the successful methods
used by voluntarily humane packers.

It is hoped the committee will reCon-
sider its action and vote out. a bill similar
to that passed by the house.

CHARLOTTE, N. c. NEWS
JUN 2 5 1958

e taena'

.“Spread the Truth”— nouns GREELEY

Efﬁe": mum, Horace Greeley, Whitelaw Reid, Ogden Reid, Whitelaw Reid; nEluLn, James Gordon Bennett Sr. & Jr.

 

- Wednesday, July 9, 1958

 

The Senate Must Save
Humane Slaughter

Animals can feel pain. as keenly as
human beings‘and are equally prey
to fear and terror. But they can’t
speak Or vote, and therefore haVe no
influence in Congress. Which is about
the only available explanation why
the Humane Slaughter Bill, after
passing- the House, has been put on
ice by the Senate Agriculture Com-
mittee on the ﬂimSy pretext that it
requires “further study” of slaughter-
ing procedures. .

Further study} For thirty years, this
has been the excuse advanced for
delay by some of the big meat packers.
The House Agriculture Committee
made a personal tour of the slaughter-
houses and was immediately convinced
that changes were necessary. The
Senators, however, stayed in Wash-
ington, refusing even to see a ﬁlm
depicting the slaughtering of hogs.

Just what do thé advocates of
humane slaughter want? All they
want is the introduction of methods
to render animals 'inSensible to pain
before they are butchered, either by
electric stunning or by carbon dioxide
gas. The objection from packing
houses seems to be that these methods
would be too expensive. But one ﬁrm
that has adopted them, Hormel & 00.,

says that they are saving it money.

CHARLESTON, S. 0.

NEWS & COURIER
Circ. D. 50.7:7 - 5. 50.533

JUN 28 1958
Painless Slaughter

ghe humane slaughter bill was
given a more a m e Senate
Agriculture Committee last week.
The committee declined to approve
legislation designed to bring an end
to slaughterhouse crueltyto ani-
mals. .The members voted for a
two-year study of painless slaugh
tering methods. -

Maybe the committee believes
that the people of this country,
are the dumb animals. The subject
of humane slaughtering lawshas
been discussed for-years. Either
the United States does or doesn’t
need such laws. A Congressional
study of this problem is a waste of
the taxpayers’- money. One of the
most effective painless way of kill-
ing legislatiOn in Congress is to stu-
dy it to death.

so it would appear that humane,
slaughtering is to the advantage of

the meat packer, quite apart from

considerations of common decency.

Fortunately, supporters. of humane

slaughter are determined not to let
the issue die. They have worked hard
for their; objective, especially in the
last two years. We earnestly hopethat
the full Senate will do something to
save this bill asla working measure
before Congress adjourns.

As Subtle As ABIowOn The Head

0 PUT IT bluntly, thehumaneslaughe

termbill was bludgeoned in the Sen-
ate Agriculture Committee last week
with the kind of vehemence the meat
packers usually reserve for dumb ani-
mals.

Rather than approve legislation simi-
lar to the Poage Bill passed by the
House of Representatives, committee
members voted fora two-year “study”
Of painless slaughtering methods.

Both the American Meat Institute and
the Department Of Agriculture were lob-
bying vigorously, for ‘fstudy” legislation.
It is a familiar dodge.'Similar ,dclaying
tactics have sentenced great bundles of
worthy legislation to a lingering death in
the past.

The bill is expected to reach the Sen-
ate floor in July. Its amendment, to
return to it the effective language of
Rep. Poage’s bill, would mark the begin-
ning of the end of slaughterhouse cruel-
ties to animals in the United States.

There is no need for any additional
“study” of humane slaughtering meth-
ods. They have already been studied in
enormous detail and perfected with great
care by U. S. universities. Painless kill-
ing methods are in use and, in fact, re-

quired by law in civilized European
countries. A few U. S‘. packers find these
methods both economical and efficient.
. It isplainlycabsurd to postpone action
in the United States merely to confirm
the proposition that cruelty is cruel.
All-thatproponents Of humane slaugh-
ter legislation want is a system in which
the animal is rendered quietly uncon-
scious before it is killed. It is a reason-
able enough goal in a.civilized society.

 

YOUNGSTOWN, OH
VINDICATOR IO

Circ. D. 98.352 . s. 140.293
JUN 2 4 1958
End Packing House Cruelty 1

Because comparatively few Americans know
about the inhumane methods use}; in slaugh-

 

tering the animals Which eventuall‘m

their tables With meat, they have 3flzaiilaiimih’
give sufficient support to legislation now be-
fore Congress to eliminate unnecessary
cruelty in the packing houses.

Last week two House measures were de-
feated in a Senate committee which re-
ported out a “study” bill, instead. The legisla-
tion sought by adherents of humane slaugh-
tering would have established this as the
country’s public policy, requiring that the
federal government and its agencies buy meat
only from packing plants using humane
methods.

The “study” bill is obviously a delaying
measure, asked by the American Meat In-
stitute and the Department of Agriculture. It
proposes that the Secretary of Agriculture
study slaughtering methods for two years.

There is no need for this. 'The carbon di-
ox1de tunnel: and a number of types of pistols
for making animals insensible to pain have
been fully .developed and have been used by
some leading packers during the last few
years. - ' ’

The humane organizations charge that the
meat industry’s efforts to kill an effective
humane slaughter law are strikingly similar
to the industry’s Oppositionto the Meat In-
spection Act early in the century.

There is no point in continuing slaughter-
house cruelty any longer. There is no real
economic reason for it. The “study” bill is
scheduled to reach the Senate floor next
month. Advocates of humane methods should

demand its defeat‘and restoration of the
Compulsory Humane Slaughter Bill.

 

 




A .BCRlPPB-HUWARD NEWSPAPER
“Gwougm and the people will and their own way.“

John T. O’Rourke, Editor Matt Meyer, Basilio. Manage:
THURSDAY. JULY 3. 1958
DI. 7-777:

1013 13th sr. N.w. (Zone 5; Q , .
In Metropolitan Washin ton: By Carrier. 280- per week: 31.3! . month. By Mail.

! month. $3.75: 8 mont a. 87.50:. on nu. Sis.
‘ e .

A Merciless Stall

F a member of. the Senate Agriculture

Committee should look out his Window

today and ’see a .small'boy tormenting a
cat we’ll bet he’d spring into action.

But, oddly, the 'committee'as a. whole
seems calm when it is calledcto their
attention that grown-dip boys kill, steers,
lambs and pigs in painful, bloody and
needless brutality.-

The .House passed a much-needed
humane slaughter bill months ago.

The Senate committee has now tried
to slit. the bill’s throat—but substituting
one which calls for apointless two-year
study of packing methods. Hasn’t this
condition been “studied” enough?

This proposal to “study” for two more
years is a merciless stall. The brutality
is proven. The economic practicality of
humane methods has been demonstrated
by such progressive packers as Cudahy,

Foreign Mail: 2 month. 02‘ a rear
R 8 U. 8. Fat. 011.

Hormel and Oscar"Mayer .& (30., all of
whom use efficient and painless slaugh-
tering techniques.

It serves not the American. public—-

. which has supported the humane bill. by ,.

a caScade of letters—but the selfish in-
terests of the AmericanMeat Institute
and the institute’s'pals in the Depart-
ment Of Agriculture, the champions of
indifference and inertia.

It might be worth while for. the com-
mittee members to take a tax-paid tour
of the worst slaughter houses and then
think the whole thing over, or, better
still, take a trip (i. e., junket). to the
many countries where the Situation that
exists here has been outlawed for many

years.
The rest of the Senate, we trust, won’t

need such a blood-shot view to reject
this stall and to insist that the House

bill be brought up and passed.

rorrno BLADE June 30,1958

StoleOn Humoue’Sldb‘g‘hier.

‘ THE SENATE agriculture Committee has reg-
ported'out a bill directing the Secretary
of Agriculture to study methods of slaughtering
meat animals and come up within: a couple of
years with legislation that would set forth what
would constitute a humane system of slaughter
in American packing houses. The committee
contendslthat there isn’t enough information
available to legiSlate now on the, subject. '
We are not impressed with this action or the
reason for it. For years the humaneslaughter

 

issue has been thoroughly debated and. aweaith. ‘

of information is available. Unnecess'arily brutal

and clumsy slaughter practices have been docu--

mented. So has the successful use ~bypackers
abroad, and some in this country,‘oi more or-
Iective, relatively painless modem killing maths:
ods. To say 'now that further study appears
necessary is simply a way oigpostponing action
on a reform that the humane Societies xhaVe

demonstrated is needed and feasible and which, '

Xe think, has the support of the publié behind

The House of Representatives in February
passed a bill which. would compel pa‘ckers- Who
sell'meat to the Federal Government to kill

animals by humane methods. This dOesr‘iot‘go'

the full length thatthe humane societies would
like but' they approve it as a long step. in the

rightdirection; The Senate would do well to
override 'its- AgriCulture. Committee“ and enact
the law as approved by the House.

THE BOSTON

smooth JULY 12.1958

. .J‘“ 3:75
7 “I V 1‘ ,I' , . .

a V rues EIGHT.

 

No Time for

.aéEvery. day in whieh the Senate-

daﬂlies"? withfthe Humane Slaugh-

tereBill ice—one more day in which
5'3" a ' < ‘ o o

animals die cruelly and in pain.

BWQ after passing the House by.

an: overwhelming margin in Feb-
wary the bill has been sides
hooked} "supposedly because the
S e hate, Agriculture, Committee
needss’time to study. slaughter pro-
cedﬁm» . ‘

“ 'llhe , Committee required. time

in 1956, too, ‘Wh‘en the bill met .

an ' identical end. A‘ House Coma
mitteejit’hen toured. Islaughterhouses
observing the methods that pre-

vaued. The tour was a horrifyy

mgeﬁfeiiélaﬁm . of '. man’s -, indiffer-

enceto the, fate of other species-

@th .r__House Committee spon-
som(i_.-.,a, bill reduiring the employ-
mentot. humane methods by pack-
ers-ravishing to contract with the
government; It was passed by
voids vote.- . , «

., , But in the Senate Agriculture

&mmittee, which; did no ,slaughs

teyhouse: inspection, ..-the senators
rengsegl; even. to ‘see ya sound 4 ﬁlm
sushi-telly . depicting routine pig
slaughter as practiced on more-
thhnSO mill-ion pigs “a year.

 

Instead, by a vote at lied, they
passed a “study” bill.

This means that the senators,
who were too squeamish to watch
hogs being massacred on a Screen,
could with serenity and good con-
science. condemn. millions of ani-
mals to a ghastly fate. But the
bill, had this feature as amended:
the. Senators didn’t have to see
the. animals die. .-

Perh-aps it, is easier and‘ more
pleasant not to have the hideous
facts of life paraded before one.
The senators do not have to see
the wildly rolling eyes of shackled
animals,
trails, the .Stagger of half-stunned
cattle closing with the knife. Nor
do they have to “listen to the
screams and bellows/ of animals
in agony. Life, in fact, can con-
tinue on its cheerful round.‘

. g The ﬁrm of Hormel "& Com-
pani', Which has adapted humane
butchering methods, reports that

swift and eﬂicient’techniques have

proved economical. N or packer.
Will. go bankrupt because humane

slaughtering methods prevail. But

at least 10 senators are convinced

that all’s right. with the world

and business is business.

the welter‘” of bloody

 




Please look at the terriﬁed face of this tortured animal
screaming in anguish. She is one of the more than
100,000,000 sentient creatures upon whom this unneces-
sary suffering is inﬂicted every year.

 

This is the method most packers CHOOSE for
killing pigs, lambs, sheep and calvesueven though
practical humane methods are available which would
prevent this pain and terror.

COMPULSORY HUMANE SLAUGHTER
LEGISLATION MUST BE ENACTED

TO
STOP THIS SENSELESS CRUELT Y

 

 

 




 

Our farm animals deserve, at the Very least, a
merciful death in return for the food, leather, medi-
cal aids and countless other beneﬁts they give us.
They can be anesthetized, or they can be instantane-
_ ously stunned by a mechanical instrument so that
they'are not even aware that they are about to be
slaughtered. It is our plain duty to insist upon

the use of these humane methods.

What is the cost of humane slaughter?

There are three humane stunning instruments
on the market. Their cost is: Cash-X Captive
Bolt Pistol: $100. Schermer stunner: $150. Rem-
ington stunner: $220. Ammunition costs 21/th to
4¢ per animal.

There are carbon dioxide anesthetizing machines
for diﬂ’erent sizes of plants. Carbon dioxide costs
less than 1¢ per animal. The manufacturer gives
a series of generalized prices from $3,500 (for 60
hogs per hour) up to $39,000 (for 600 hogs per
hour). An additional 50% of the cost of the
machine shOuld be allowed for installation.

Are humane methods of slaughter
practical and economical?

Yes. The three largest packing companies using
a humane method—the Oscar Mayer Company, the
George A. Hormel Company and Kingan and Com-
pany—adopted these methods primarily for eco-
nomic reasons. A number of other packers have
adopted a stunning instrument voluntarily and have
used it over a period of years in successful com-
petition with packers who use inhumane methods.
Another humane method in use for decades is shoot-
ing animals with a riﬂe immediately before bleed-

ing; thisis done frequently in farm slaughter and
in small plants.

l\J

Would humane slaughter help the worker
on the killing ﬂoor?

Yes. The accident rate for the packing industry
as a whole is almost double that for all industrial
activity combined, and it is rising. The killing
ﬂoor is the most dangerous place in a packing plant,
because men are forced to struggle with conscious
animals ﬁghting for their lives—kicking, biting,
sometimes deﬂecting the knife in their death agonies.

Workmen in inhumanely operated slaughtering
plants are subject not only to the danger of painful
injuries, but to the noise of screaming, the splash-
ing of blood, the general dirtiness and the physical
strain which make this one of the worst jobs in the
industry. Where humane methods are used. these
terrible working c0nditions are eliminated.

Slight increases and decreases in employment,
depending on species of animals and different meth-
ods used, could be expected to balance each other
so that there would be no change in the - over-all

employment picture.

Would livestock producers or consumers be
penalized ﬁnancially by enactment of
humane slaughter legislation?

No. The cost of humane slaughter is relatively
small and is more than made up by savings through
reduction of bruised meat.

Why should the ‘United States enact

compulsory humane slaughter legislation?

1. The infliction of unnecessary suffering on ani-
mals is abhorrent to the majority of American

citizens.

2. The United States is a world leader; its set
standards of humaneness should not be inferior to
those of the western European democracies, most
of which already have such legislation.

3. More than $50,000,000 worth of meat is
wasted annually in the United States through bruisi-
ing. Humane slaughter is an important factor in
bruise reduction.

Is it practical to make the use of humane
methods of slaughter compulsory?

Yes. Compulsory humane slaughter legislation is
in effect in the following countries: (The dates in-
dicate the year when humane slaughter legislation
was enacted in each country).

Switzerland 1874 England 1933
Netherlands 1920 Finland 195-4
Norway 1924 Sweden 1957
Scotland 1928 Fiji ’ 1948
Ireland 1932 New Zealand 195 1

Denmark 1956

Parts of France, Germany, Austria and Australia
have also enacted humane slaughter legislation.

What is the difference between humane
slaughter and the methods now used in
most American packing plants?

Routine slaughter of hogs: 1) The hogs are driven
into a pen and shackled with a heavy chain around
one hind leg. Common abuses are beating recalci-
trant hogs with the shackle (causing bruises), piling
up of hogs on the one being dragged aloft by a
mechanical pulley, breaking of leg or pelvis of heavy
hogs, hog’s foot slipping out of the shackle so
that the animal falls from a height on top of the
others. 2) Hogs are carried aloft over a 14-foot
wheel to the sticking area, where a man with a knife
cuts the jugular veins of the screaming animals,
which then are left to bleed to death. Improperly
stuck hogs have been known to go into the scalding
tank while still alive and conscious, although the
Department of Agriculture has a regulation that these
animals cannot be used for human consumption.

4

 

 




Routine slaughter of sheep, lambs and most
calves: This is similar to hog slaughter, except that
these docile animals create less disturbance and in
their death struggles cause fewer injuries to the men.

Routine slaughter of cattle and some calves: 1)
The animals are driven into stunning pens, usually
2-4 at a time. 2) A knocker (a man with a long-
handled hammer) stands on a platform and tries to
hit the animal’s forehead in a manner to cause it to
fall, unconscious without doing too much damage to
pate and brains. A report on routine slaughter
at one of the biggest plants in the United States
stare-s: ”On the ﬁrst blow with the hammer, the
knocker felled the ﬁrst steer, whereupon the other
two terriﬁed animals climbed all over the prone
body. With all this stumbling and lunging, it took
two blows to fell the others. By the time this was
done, the ﬁrst one was coming to and trying to get
to his feet. I counted nine additional blows with
the hammer before that one went out!” Ten to thir-

teen blows are not uncommon.

Humane slaughter requires that animals be in-
stantantously stunned with one shot (as with the
captive bolt pistol, Schermer stunner or Remington
stunner) or that they be rapidly anesthetized (as
with carbon dioxide) prior to shackling and bleed-
ing. (The humaneness of this latter method is
demonstrated by the fact that hogs which ride
through a carbon dioxide anesthetizing machine, if
not slaughtered, awaken from unconsciousness with—
in three minutes and are willing to repeat the trip
without objection.)

5

 

 

 




More than a quarter of a century ago, the packers
promised to adopt humane methods voluntarily.
They formed a "Committee for Improved Slaughter-
ing Methods” in 1929, and have been ”studying"
the question ever since. Nevertheless, the vast ma-
jority of our food animals are still being killed by
the same cruel methods. The packers dare not op-
pose humane slaughter outright, so they seek to put
it off indeﬁnitely with more ”study” and ”research.”
They seek legislation which would achieve this
unworthy purpose.

Good, eﬂ‘ective humane slaughter bills are pend-
ing in Congress: H:.R. 8308 has the approval of
the House Committee on Agriculture. 8. 1497 is
pending in the Senate. They should be given active
support.

If this legislation is not passed, more hundreds of
millions of animals will suffer tortures for which no
rational excuse can be given.

Write to Washington and ask all of your
friends and acquaintances to Write too ask-
ing for immediate passage of the Humane
Slaughter bills. Your Representatives may
be addressed at the House Ofﬁce Building,
Washington, D.C. Your Senators at the
Senate Oﬁice Building, Washington, D.C.

Additional copies of this leaﬂet may be obtained
free of charge by writing to

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue
New York 22, New York

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
745 Fifth Avenue

New York 22, New York

October 16, 1962

To Humanitarians:

Great headway was made at the hearings towards the goal of enacting H.R. 1937
for the humane treatment of experimental animals. Though action could not be taken
because the adjournment of Congress was so near, the Committee is now fully and
officially informed on the urgent need for enactment and the soundness of the legis—
lation. The enclosed editorial from the Louisville Courier Journal, "Silent Sufferers
Will Haunt This Hearing Room," gives a summary of the provisions of the bill.

The comprehensive account of the hearings in Betty Beale's "Exclusively Yours" in
the Washington Star reports on what happened there.

PLEASE GIVE THESE EDITORIALS AND ARTICLES TO YOUR LOCAL EDITOR
OR TO ANOTHER HUMANE EDITOR. ASK HIM TO PUBLISH AN EDITORIAL IN

SUPPORT OF THE LEGISLATION. If he would like additional background material,
we have a limited number of mimeographed c0pies of testimony submitted by humane
medical men and scientists and officers of animal protective organizations which we
will be glad to send on request. It is essential to keep building support for the legis—
lation between now and January when Congress reconvenes, for the opponents, dis—
mayed by the quality of the testimony presented by advocates of legislation for the
protection of laboratory animals, are planning to redouble their efforts to defeat it.
We know this at first hand from listening to the official report on the hearings pre-
sented at the Animal Care Panel in Chicago, Octdber fourth.

 

Most people would assume that an organization named the Animal Care Panel
would support legislation to prevent needless suffering to laboratory animals. They
would believe so doubly if they were informed that many of its members and officers
are veterinarians. However, they might think twice when they learned that a large
proportion of persons attending the annual Animal Care Panel meetings are in
business selling animals, cages, feed and equipment and that the success of their
commercial enterprises depends upon constant growth of the numbers of animals
used regardless of how they are used and whether or not that use is necessary.

The fact is that Animal Care Panel policy-makers are fanatically opposed to
H.R. 1937. Dr. Melvin Rabstein, President, and Dr. Bennett Cohen, who made the
report on the hearings and who heads a committee which plans to give seals of
approval to laboratories it considers adequate, are both veterinarians. The seals
of approval are intended as a substitute for H.R. 1937. To throw some light on
what this committee is likely to consider adequate, it was not till Dr. Cohen left
his position in charge of the animals at U.C.L_A. Medical School that even a-feR;
pens were provided for exercise for caged dogs. Prior to that they were chained
on short chains to the wall while their cages were being hosed.

 




-2-

Dr. W.T.S. Thorp, another veterinarian, first to speak against the legislation at
the hearings, supports Dr. Maurice Visscher in his view that dog care at the Uni-
versity of Minnesota is fine. There they do not even take the dogs out of the cages
before they hose them, and we are reliably informed that half the animals are wet
as a result. These dogs are kept in basement and subbasement cages three tiers

high and never released for exercise. An estimated 10,000 dogs are used annually
by this institution.

Not only these veterinarians directly associated with experimental animals but
the American Veterinary Medical Association itself is opposing H.R. 1937. Dr. L.
Meyer Jones, official spokesman at the hearings, twice shouted during the course
of his testimony: "Humaneness cannot be legislated!" Yet he must know that humane-
ness has been legislated for more than a hundred million food animals by the Fede-
ral Humane Slaughter Act.

Dr. Jones testified, "The A,V.M.A, is opposed to the enactment of H.R. 1937 and
~‘H,R, 3556 because these bills would require Federal licensing of most biological

scientists in the U.S.A. and inspection of their laboratories." Next time you have an

opportunity to talk with a veterinarian ask him if he does not think that laboratories

should be inspected and persons experimenting on animals licensed so that decent
humane standards can be enforced. If he would like additional information about the

legislation, let us know.

PLEASE KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK YOU HAVE BEEN DOING IN INCREASING

SUPPORT FOR H.R. 1937 AND THE IDENTICAL SENATE BILL, S, 3088. If you have
not yet written to your Congressman and Senators asking their endorsement of this
legislation, write them now. If you have an opportunity to meet your Congressman

or Senators during the current election campaigns be sure to ask them to support
this legislation in the coming Congressional session. Let us know their response.
After the election you may wish to write again.

 

 

 

The bills will have to have new numbers in the coming session because they must
be reintroduced. Until the Congress reconvenes in January, it is correct to refer to
the numbers of this session's bills and to seek support for them. We will keep you
informed of all important developments.

Your letters demanding action were responsible for obtaining the hearings which
have so powerfully advanced the cause of decent protection for experimental animals.
Congressman Kenneth Roberts, the outstandingly humane and able Chairman who
conducted the hearings, deserves letters of praise and encouragement for favorable
action on the legislation in the coming session.

The hearings have clearly demonstrated that this desperately needed legislation
can be enacted if humanitarians keep working hard. Our grateful thanks to all.

Sincerely,

Madeleine Bemelmans, President
Christine Stevens, Secretary

 




'Miss Marian E. Titus
18.;.Oak Street _ ,
Nicholson, , Pennsylvania

, Dear Miss Titus:

Your letter to the Secretary of Defense, regarding several bills before V
g the Congress concerning humane treatment of laboratory animals, has been
referred to me for reply. '

There is already an existing Defense Department policy on the subject
of laboratory animal care.’ This policy is identical to that established by
the National Society for Medical Research, an organization which represents
the views of American professional groups in the life sciences. This policy
includes nine basic principles of laboratory animal care which must be
followed by all research investigators on Defense Department sponsored re-
search projects. *

1. ‘All animals used for experimental purposes inust be lawfully ac— -
quired and their retentiOn shall be in strict compliance with Federal, State
and local laws and regulations. - ’ - V

. 2. Researchprojects involving live animals must be performedby,
or under the immediate supervision of, aqualified biological scientist...

3. The housing, care, and feeding of all experimental animals shall
be supervised by a preperly qualified veterinarian or other biological
scientist competent in such matters v

4. All laboratory animals must receive every consideration for their V
comfort; they must be kindly treated, properly fed, and their surroundings V_
kept in a sanitary condition.

 




Miss Marian IE... Titua

The interest you have shoWn in this subject affecting the Qefense‘ ,Separt‘
meat is most certainly appreciated.

:Eincerlely yours ,

LEGNARD D.) HEA’IKEN
Lieutenant General
The Eur'geon General

 




 

/

Ir

"SPRAY OF CHRISTMAS"

 

hampmn

 

 

 

s

{(7.2 :2" i-j¢-r?‘j (.1 z &:.(0

 

 




DR. ALBERT SCHWEITZER

Those who test operations or drugs on animals, or who
inoculate them with diseases so that we may be able to
help human beings by means of the results thus obtained,

' ought never to rest satisﬁed with the general idea that
their dreadful doings are performed in pursuit of a
worthy aim, it is their duty to ponder in every separate
case whether it is really necessary thus to sacriﬁce an
animal for humanity. They ought to be ﬁlled with
anxrous care to alleviate as much as possible the pain
that they cause. How many outrages are committed in
.this way_m scientiﬁc institutions where narcotics are
often omitted to save time and trouble! How many also
when animals are made to suffer agonizing torture, only
in order to demonstrate to students scientiﬁc truths
which are perfectly well known.

”no.9...00090 9

MARK TWAIN

I believe I am not interested to know whether
vivisection produces results that are proﬁtable
'to the human race or doesn't. To know that
the results are proﬁtable to the race would
not remove my hostility to it. THE PAIN WHICH
IT INFLICTS UPON UNCONSENTING ANI-
MALS is the basis of my enmity toward it,
and it is to me sufficient justification of the en-
mity without looking further.

.............agoagooocgeons-ooo-AQO-‘Ooono

DOROTHY THOMPSON

(Newspaper columnist, lecturer and radio commentator)

The psychologists feel more strongly than the other
scientists about introducing immature youth to ex-
perimentation upon animals. _Arnong psychopaths
. the most readily observable trait IS Iack_of sympathy
and affection. Sight of pain and suffering does not
move them. This deficiency in warm and benevolent
emotional reactions usually dates, if it is not neuro-
logical and congenital, from some trauma or traumas
developed in childhood, and (as our forefathers know
and our most “modern" child psychologists have
relearned) the child cannot get or_ give enough of
loving—by which I do not mean indulgence. Any-
thing whatever, therefore, that develops callousness
rto the suffering of others during_chrldhood and
adolescence is psychologically IHJUI‘IOUS.

,r r~ -.

DR. ROBERT GESELL

(late Chairman, Department of Physiology,
» University of Michigan)

We are drowning and suffocating unanaesthetized ani-
mals—in the name of science. W/e are determining the
amount of abuse that life will endure in unanaesthetized
animals—in the name of science. We are producing
frustration ulcers in experimental animals under shock-
ing conditions—in the name of science. We are observ-
ing animals for weeks, months, or even years under
infamous conditions—in the name of science. With the
aid of the halo su plied by the faith of the American
people in medica science, the National Society for
Medical Research converts sanctuaries of mercy into
animal pounds at the beck and call of experimental
laboratories regardless of how the animals are to be
used. What a travesty of humanity., This may well prove
to be the blackest spot in the history of medical science.

 




, GEORGE ARLISS

- The cure/of human ailments is being re-
tarded, and the human body is being

. ‘vitiated by the poison arising from ani-

‘ ' mal experimentations. If you doubt this,
:1. i i I. would ask you to think whether it seems
possible that God ever intended that
animals be tortured, in order that we
might be cured of disease. If I believed

' that, I could have no religion at all. I

i ‘ certainly could not worship such a God.

,onfoorcgsoo"oc ' ‘ ‘e- 0’ron H u

' DR. HENRY J BIGELOW
~ (Lute Professor of Surgery, Harvard Medical School)
There will come a time when the
,f A world will look back to modern vivi-
{if section in the name of science as they
" do now to burning at the stake in
the name of religion.

/

i’\[‘\ . ,f \ i, z“\" , ' '
000.0000tocoo-ooad¢ooid¢¢ﬂo.uoouvoﬁvgood-o

,.ooboao¢oooo 0

 




1 ,

f

.45 Wife
star in CBS-

J ack Benny Show”

tonight. 4/6}- -

added 19 weeks to its initial
13-week commitment for
July Garland’s variety hour.
The singer’s series has en-
countered both production
and ratings troubles.

’ << << >>

. Science Series

The nation’s Science Fairs,

in which more than a mil-

lion pre-college students

participate annually, will

be the basis for an entertain-

ment-education series on

ABC-TV Sundays at 4:30
pm. beginning Jan. 12.

_ ,Purpose of the 30-minute
”weekly" program," producer
Steve Carlin explained yes-
terday, is to present enter-
tainingly the achievements
of science-minded youngsters
as a means of getting still

)>

more students “into the
hands of science teachers.”
Carlin, whose past TV

? credits include “Quiz Kids”
‘ and'“Giant Step,” said he
had traveled through the
country for the past two'
years looking for student
projects to exhibit on the
series. ' ' ,
“Science All Stars,” as the
program will be called, will be
sponsored by the Minneapo’a:
' Iii-Honeywell ' Regulator Cog,
I. which sold nearly $600 mil-3
‘ f lion-worthof automatic con-4

i
I

 

\
M

Tuesday, October

  
  

   
  

trol equi viii-,5 eggla's 3,,
.- This ,wi l we" the‘fiirm‘ijs
venture in network TV
Dr. Glenn, ., 'T. Seabarg},\
chairman of the Atomic Eur-‘- ‘
ergy Commission, appears"? in ,,
the taped premiere of the 7
series, which. was previewed '
for the press yesterday at the
Park Sheraton Hotel; ,He
spoke of the growing need to '
attract more young people
into science and engineering
careers. _ .
One of four TV cameras ,
used to take the previewed
ﬁrst program was manned by
a 16-year-old Seattle boy,
Norman .Ahlquist, who built
the’camera out of electronic
parts he picked up for $40.

Don Morrow, a familiar
TV ﬁgure, has been cast as
g, host of the series. ,

. I ‘ - _ K
yﬁ-g 3 73“ »l.
n art.- . .

/CBS will tam: an interview

 

 

'sqrv, - _.5-.wNEw-+v
. , _ _

 

 




l ' by“ " ' ft

'1
A\~

’7 YOUNG SCIENTISTS"
WILLMMM. ‘

New Show to lncludeYout’hs
and Prominent Experts

___________.._——~————‘

By VAL ADAMS
5 who havewon

ram to be televised
American Broadcasting /
pany on Sundays from 4:30 t -
P.M., beginning Jan. 12.

, A.B.C. said scientists, edu—
cators, military leaders

to successfully
through the so
is commandant

ch

gineering, biology, medicine, as-
tronomy, physics and chemistry;
will be the mas-
ter of ceremonies for “Science
All Stars.” The executive" pro-p
at ducer is Steven R. Carlin. The
re series will be sponsored by the
‘ Minneapolis-Honeyw'el '
' tor Company. -
Lg, , ,,
us

, at .
pﬂ Elder Mrs. KL.” ‘-

 

 

 




I" I 11/ \4/(5‘2’
I :’

uTINAMiiIGANs’ ‘
ADVANCE SCIENCE

School Fairs Are Planned
With U. 8. Support

WASHINGTON (Science Serv-
icel--—~'l.‘housands of boys and
girls in the high schools of Latin
America are joining those in the
United States and other parts of
the world in doing science ex-
‘ periments and projects and
showing them in science fairs. j
The Chilean Science Fair was
7 held recently in Santiago unden
. the sponsorship of the Chilean‘
Department. of ihlblic Educa~
tion, which was aided by a new;
national (_‘:01nn‘1it,tee for the pop-I
tilarization of science. T
Last March the first. Mexicanl

_ Science Fair was held at Mexico!
City. In .A,_1:n‘il, 1933, Colombiaf
will hold a science fair for its .
students interested in science;
and, also next year, Peru plans}
a science fair under the. auspices;
of the Peruvian Atomic. Energy}
Connnission. 3
Brazil has had a. science i‘air‘j
and a science talent search l'orl
sm’cral years organized from;
Sao Paulo.
5,000 Fairs in U. S.

These new oppmrtunities for;
young people to augment their
science studies by hobby and;
extracurricular development of%
science projects extend to other:
parts- of the Western Hemi—i
sphere the scicme youth pro-l
grams that developed during thel
[past two decades in the United‘
‘States. 3
There are approxin’iatcly .),000
science fairs in United States;
Vsecondary schools and it is esti-
':mated that 1,000,000 boys and
girls participate in the projects.)

. The high school fairs send;
their best exhibits to local and,a
“regional science fairs. Two hun-i
mclred and ten of these regional;
fairs will send their Winning;
» displays to the National Science?
.Fair-International, which willf
be held next, May at Albiitplei'—,‘
que. N. M. i

' Canada, too, has a scienceJ
fair program involving about at
dozen local exhibitions each?
.year. Among the other foreign;
' countries holding such. fairs are:
Japan, Thailand and Pakistzmx
_ Armed Services Dependents'i
Schools in France and Germany?
also have their science fair ac»
tivities. : '
A.E.C. Supports Program .
In Mexico and Chile the!
science fair development has5
been made possible by support;
from the United States Atomic}
Energy Commission througl'ii
Science Service. The A.E.C. con»
siders the science youth pro~7
gram in Mexico and Chile as;
supporting its effort to bring"
nuclear and technical informa—;
tion to those countries. l
The winning exhibits in the?
Mexican Science Fair were in—é
eluded in the “Atoms in Action"§
' exhibition displayed by the
commission in Mexico City and
the winning exhibits of the
Chilean Science Fair will simi-
larly be shown in the extensive
atomic energy exposition in;
November in Santiago. ’ §
In both Mexico and Chile the:
official governmental depart—j
merits of education have joined
in organizing the fair. Plai'is?
are under way to extend a simi~1
lar development not only inl
Colombia, where the A.lC.C. cx-
hibition will be shown in 1003,;
but also in Peru, where a sci-g
ence fair is planned. l
Although atomic energy has
been the motive power for the
organization of science fairs in.
Latin America, the exhibits,j
like those in the American sci-I
ence fairs, cover the entire;
range of science, from astron—i
omy to zoology. i
From the experience of these
science projects, scientists and?
educators expect that there will
be a renaissance of science in-

terest in these countries.

l

 




ACTION 6‘! INC.

PRELIMINARY REPORT ON THEFT OF DOGS AND CATS, 1974-1991

THE ENCLOSED REPORT INCLUDES:

 

AN ANALYSIS OF THE CURRENT SYSTEM OF ACQUISITION OF LABORATORY DOGS AND
CATS.

COMPILED AND GENERAL STATISTICS OF MISSING, BELIEVED STOLEN, AND STOLEN
DOGS AND CATS. THIS SECTION HAS NOT BEEN COMPLETED.

REACTION OF HUMAN VICTIMS OF DOG AND CAT THEFT AS SHOWN IN A SAMPLING
OF LETTERS FROM THE ACTION 81 COLLECTION.

ACTION 81, INC, IS A NON—PROFIT FOUNDATION, CHARTERED IN VIRGINIA, AND
OPERATING AS A NATIONAL NETWORK TO MONITOR, EXPOSE, AND PREVENT THE
THEFT OF DOGS AND CATS FOR LABORATORY USE.

ACTION 81 RECOGNIZES THAT ADDITIONAL MARKETS FOR STOLEN ANIMALS EXIST.
THESE INCLUDE DOGFIGHTING, BREEDING, GUARD DOG SALES, PELTING, USE IN
CULT RITUALS, RANSOM, AND FOOD.

THE ACTION 81 PROGRAM HAS BEEN CENTERED ON THEFT FOR LABORATORY USE.
A FINAL REPORT OF MATERIAL IN THE ACTION 81 FILES WILL BE COMPLETED
IN JULY, 1991.

A financial statement on ACTION 81, INC, is available from the State
Division of Consumer Affairs in the Department of Agriculture and

Consumer Services, PO Box 1163, Richmond, VA 23209 upon request.
Tel. (804) 786—2042

Route 3, Box 6000 / Berryville, Virginia 22611 / Telephone 703—955-1278

 




ACTION 5‘? INC.

THE ACQUISITION AND USE OF STOLEN DOGS AND CATS BY MEDICAL RESEARCH,
TEACHING, AND TESTING FACILITIES.

Stolen dogs and cats are allegedly.being acquired for use in medical
research, testing, and teaching laboratories in the United States. They
are not being surrendered voluntarily by their owners. Their presence in
the laboratory may or may not be recognized as stolen property belonging
to tax—paying citizens.

 

 

They are silent Victims of the dealer—laboratory connection.

Pet theft is a crime of low risk and easy profit. The Victims are often
unsupervised and unmarked. Witnesses are silent, not anxious to become
"involved." Owners are at work, leaving the dogs and cats alone in the
yard. The pets' daily schedules are easily monitored by thieves.

Theft of dogs and cats is triggered and kept alive by the steady and
lucrative research market. The system of acquisition of laboratory
animals operates easily within the framework of a weakened, underfunded
Animal Welfare Act with its USDA agents of enforcement.

HOW DOES THE SYSTEM ACTUALLY WORK??

 

Historically a system of cruelty, "no questions asked," corruption, and
cover—up. A system untroubled by law enforcement.

AT THE TOP: MEDICAL, TESTING AND TEACHING FACILITIES
What are they ordering that must be obtained by theft?
Special order purebreds, healthy, human-oriented family
type companion animals. Definite dates for delivery.
"Supplies" that may not be readily or legally available.

 

THE SUPPLIERS: CLASS B DEALERS....... AND THEIR SUPPLIERS
Dealers with records of federal and state law violations.
Atrocities, starvation. instances of stolen animals.
Pounds and auctions selling dogs or cats. Illicit, cover—up
operations. Area theft problems linked to pound and auction.
The bunchers and common thieves. Spotters, false licenses,
quick exit routes, concealing the stolen animals.
Theft by misrepresentation in picking up giveaway animals.

 

 

 

 

TRAFFICKING WITHIN THE SYSTEM:
Inaccurate, fraudulent record keeping, difficult owner
access to dealer premises, transactions in cash, prearranged
sales, animals taken out of their area, easily added to a
legitimate collection, pound and auction animals intended
for research not shown to the public, animal wardens and.
others moonlighting in selling dogs and cats.

 

Route 3, Box 6000 / Berryville, Virginia 22611 / Telephone 703—955-1278

 




Theft by misrepresentation is being exposed gradually. Giveaways
continue to supply dealers with laboratory dogs and cats. Massachusetts
put Theft by misrepresentation into its larceny statutes in 1986.
Giveaway pets continue to surface in dealer exposures; Stebane in WI,
Knudsen in CA, Ruggiero in CA, Hickey in OR, and Dryke in WA.

Legislation to restrict pound sales or release has been passed in
several states in the last decade. Virginia banned the sale of dogs and
cats from its pounds to out—of—state dealers in 1981. Theft was the sole
issue. The number of missing dogs in areas subject to dealer buying
declined nearly 50% the first year after passage of the bill.

 

MN passed landmark legislation in 1987 restricting dealers and putting
them under the Dept. of Health.

Washington has passed a strong law to make pet theft or acquisition by
fraud and deception a felony, 5 yrs. in jail, $10,000 fine.

Oregon has tried to pass even stronger legislation without success.

Dogs and cats continue to disappear with every sign of theft— they
continue to REMAIN missing. Experienced larceny rings continue to
operate. Strange vehicles continue to cruise neighborhoods, methods of
capture remain basically unchanged, holding places are still impossible
to find— some reports of underground hide—outs— .. .....

......... and families and individuals continue to endure the grief...
and anger of unresolved disappearances....... disappearances with
unmistakable signs of human involvement.

 

And, discouraging as it is, the areas of theft in 1965—6 continue as the
areas of theft in 1991.

The only signs of hope between "The Way It Was" and "The Way It Is" lie
in the increase of public awareness, the emergence of strong activist
groups with Lost Pet Registries and Pet Hotlines monitoring area theft.

The Tattoo Agencies' increased involvement in the theft—laboratory
problem... The National Dog Registry's joint pet protection—tattoo
clinic with the University of Missouri in Columbia. Veterinarians from
the University volunteered their time to tattoo. ......

And the enactment of the Pet Theft Act of 1990, the first piece of
federal legislation designed solely to control the crime for which it is
named. And the enactment of state laws here and there which restrict the
long—established free-wheeling trafficking of taxpayers' dogs and cats

for the agonies of the laboratory..............

 




How can the owner recover his stolen dog or cat if it cannot be traced
or identified within the current dealer—laboratory system? And yet the
animal may be there; often many states away and in one of thousands of
institutions which can well be compared to castles with moats around
them. Access to laboratories to search for stolen dogs and cats is far
too difficult and restrictive for most owners to attempt.

Businesses of integrity do not knowingly use suppliers with records of
arrests, federal law violations, and operative larceny rings providing
them with stolen property.

Owners must accept the fact that their dogs and cats cannot be left
unsupervised without the danger of theft. Even chain link pens have been
broken into, collars and tie—out chains cut in two, and supposedly safe
yards, farms, and secluded country places invaded and family pets taken.

Tattoos are definitely needed as proof of ownership and a deterrent to
laboratory use if discovered in time by concerned technicians. Tattoos
must be registered with a national dog registry to be effective.

It is 25 years since the Animal Welfare Act became law. It is also 25
years since the special issue of LIFE magazine, "Concentration Camps for
Dogs" was published. Lurid pictures of dealers' kennels, starving,
abused dogs, and a true account of animal theft for science. The Animal
Welfare Act was centered on the theft of privately owned dogs and cats,

the unacceptable conditions of transportation, housing, cruelty, and
lack of record—keeping that were — and still are — part of the
dealer—laboratory connection.

 

The dealers were to be licensed, the research facilities registered, and
strict regulations promulgated to correct the areas of abuse and theft.
The USDA was charged with enforcement of the new law. Great credit is
due the Animal Welfare Institute for this initial effort to provide
legal protection for the dogs and cats channeled through dealers to
research.

"THE WAY IT IS TODAY"...... IS IT BETTER THAN "THE WAY IT WAS IN 1966?"

The United States is riddled with areas of disappearing dogs and cats.
Theft areas are heaviest in the eastern and southeastern half of the
country including the midwestern states of Minnesota, Iowa, Illinois,
Missouri, and Arkansas. The western states of Washington, Oregon, Texas,
and California are also areas of theft and dealer activity.

Theft areas are allegedly dealer, buncher- active areas.

LIFE's 1966 issue of horror on the dealer and buncher premises has been
repeated many times in the seventies and eighties. Vrana in NJ, Knudsen
in CA, Hickey in OR, Stebane in WI, Leach in VA, Esposito, Hutton in PA,
Van Hoose in TN, Dryke in WA, Ruggiero in CA, plus blatant selling of
stolen dogs to the Mayo Institute in MN and the Univ. of Louisville, KY.
And more of these. ..... . Just the "tip of the iceberg."

 




ACTION??? INC.

ACTION 81 STATISTICS, 1974—1991

 

ACTION 81, INC, is preparing a full report of the material contained in
its files. This report will not be completed until July, 1991.

The material includes statistics on missing, believed stolen, and stolen
dogs and cats. The sources are signed letters, documented telephone
calls, lost pet registries, humane societies, animal control, dog and
cat clubs, the HSUS survey of its member societies in 1977, Action 81
national random surveys in 1977, 1978, 1980, 1983, and the joint survey
with the Animal Welfare Institute in 1991.

Reports from areas of theft, dealer, pound and auction operations
clearly indicate the channeling of stolen dogs and cats through the
present "system" to the laboratories.

Collections of several hundred articles from across the country,
additional informal reports, and personal notes are back-up material for
the report.

In addition to the above material Action 81 has compiled four ring—bound
books: The Dealer—Laboratory Connection, Book 1, The Dealer—Laboratory
Connection, Book 2, Problems of Pound Release and Sales, and Dog and Cat

 

 

 

Theft Report.

 

These books present a bulk collection of media articles, correspondence,
statistics, and updated information concerning organized theft of dogs
and cats in the United States.

The collection of VOICE of the MISSING, network newsletter of Action 81,
1982—1990, contains examples of the following in direct quotes from the
Action 81 network:

 

Stolen dogs handled by dealers.

Facts, numbers of dogs stolen in various states.

Stolen dogs in laboratories.

Area theft problems linked to pound sales to dealers and/or research.

Cruelties, atrocities, and repeated violations of state and federal law
by licensed federal dealers.

Methods of theft.

States with area theft problems.

Action 81 began keeping statistics on missing dogs and cats in 1975. It
provided testimony on 343 stolen dogs in a two county area in Virginia

during a twelve month period. This testimony was given at the committee
hearings in Washington to amend the Animal Welfare Act in 1975.

Route 3, Box 6000 / Berryvilie, Virginia .2261] / Telephone 703—955-1278

 




ACTION a? INC.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION ON ACTION 81 'S VIRGINIA STATISTICS

 

MISSING DOG REPORTS RECEIVED BY ACTION 81 IN 1979:

 

Sources:

Action 81 Individual Reports 250

Alexandria Shelter 1869

*Augusta County 400
*Bristol 58
*Culpeper 150
Fauquier County 298

Frederick—Clarke Counties 82

Front Royal 242

*Galax 74
*Gloucester—Mathews 230
Harrisonburg 300

*Lynchburg 222
*Martinsville 100
*Orange County 122
Page County 138

Prince William 360

*Richmond 1992
*Rockbridge 44
Williamsburg 200

Virginia Beach 51

7182

* Sources with a combined total of 3642 reported missing dogs from areas
in proximity to a pound selling dogs to dealers and/or research.

Most of the above figures were incomplete for the year.

For every REPORTED missing dog in an area of high theft there are at
least 3—5 that are NOT REPORTED. This factor can balance the unknown
number possibly recovered or killed.

A.81 requested the reports to list dogs missing with signs of theft.

Route 3, Box 6000 / Berryville, Virginia 22611 / Telephone 703-955-1278

 




ACTION 6'55 INC.

ACTION 81'S VIRGINIA STATISTICS

NUMBER OF MISSING DOGS REPORTED TO ACTION 81 IN
1980, 1981, 1982

 

**~k**>‘<***************‘k*k'kickv‘dckkkkickk‘kwkkickkk*kkkk***********************

HIGHEST INCIDENCE OF MISSING DOGS BY BREED

1980 1981 1982
GERMAN SHEPHERD 565 481 393
POODLE 357 240 205
LABRADOR RETRIEVER 349 449 395
TERRIER (COMBINED) 290 277 227
BEAGLE 270 213 181
IRISH SETTER 268 180 116
GOLDEN RETRIEVER 222 94 119
DOBERMAN 212 234 220
HUSKY 205 179 130
HOUNDS (COMBINED) 189 161 156
COLLIE 185 213 128
COCKER SPANIEL 151 167 81
DACHSHUND 117 85 57

PUREBRED DOGS MISSING 4756 4005 3296
MIXED BREED MISSING 2118 1319 1282
UNSPECIFIED BREED 1207 178 25

TOTAL REPORTED MISSING DOGS 8081 5502 4603

84 BREEDS RECORDED
SOURCES OF REPORTS: HUMANE SOCIETIES, LOST PET REGISTRIES, ANIMAL
CONTROL, DOG AND CAT CLUBS, INDIVIDUAL REPORTS.

NUMBER OF MISSING CATS REPORTED TO ACTION 81:

 

1980 1981 1982
2004 1846 885

Cats are not reported missing as often as dogs. They are routinely
stolen for sale to laboratories, pelting, and cult sacrifices.

Following passage of the "Dognapping" bill in Virginia in 1981
out—of—state dealers were no longer allowed to buy animals from Virginia
pounds. Action 81 statistics declined in 1981, although the bill did not
become law until July 1. The statistics were markedly lower in 1982.
Nine pounds in Virginia continue to sell or give dogs to Virginia
research and medical schools. Action 81 was contacted by residents in 90
jurisdictions in Virginia in 1988 for assistance in stopping theft of
dogs and cats in their communities. The current areas of high theft
continue to be those in proximity to laboratories and their suppliers.

Rouie 3, Box 6000 / Berryville, Virginia 22611 / Telephone 703—955-1278

 




ACTION El INC.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION ON ACTION 81'S VIRGINIA STATISTICS, CONT.

Action 81 statistics on reported missing dogs were the highest in 1980.
The purebred dogs totaled 4756, mixed breeds 2118, and unspecified
breeds 1207, making a grand total of 8081.

The sources of these reports were Humane Societies, Lost Pet Registries,
Animal Control, and individual owners. The dogs allegedly disappeared
under circumstances of theft and were not reported to Action 81 as
having been recovered at a later date.

SOURCES OF THE REPORTS:

 

Action 81, owners of missing dogs 519

*Albemarle SPCA 476
Alleghany ' 23

'Arlington 295
*Augusta 78
*Culpeper .112
*Eastern Shore 695
Fairfax County 126

Front Royal 147

*Franklin County 29
Fredericksburg 23

*Galax 47
7"Gloucester 69
*Hampton 31
Harrisonburg 57

Lancaster—Northern Neck 10

*Lexington-Rockbridge 29
*Lynchburg 220
*Martinsville 58
*Mathews 245
*Norfolk 917
*Orange County 53
Prince William 332

*Portsmouth 191
*Richmond 1013
*Roanoke 128
Williamsburg 70

Winchester Frederick County 193

Virginia Beach 16

Additional reports from above sources 10/1—12/31 1879

8081

O...
mmmmmmm

O\U10\U10\O\CO\D\JU1\l-L\LDr—*NNO\J>G\DJ\Dr—‘i—‘CDU'IU'INNN

0.... O 0..
CDUJCDUJUIUJCDCOCDUJUDCDU}

* Sources reporting a combined total of 4391 missing dogs from areas in
proximity to a pound selling dogs to dealers and/or research.

Route 3, Box 6000 / Berryviile, Virginia 22611 / Telephone 703—955—1278

 




ACTIONE! INC.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION ON ACTION 81'S VIRGINIA STATISTICS.
INFORMATION ON VIRGINIA POUNDS SELLING DOGS IN 1980:

Action 81 had difficulty obtaining information on the number of pounds
selling and the number of animals sold. The Virginia Dept. of Agric.
provided the following:

Total number of VA pounds 114
Pounds selling animals 12
Pounds selling to out of state dealers 5
Pounds selling to a VA dealer 3
Pounds selling directly to VA medical facilities

Number of dogs sold to out of state dealer:

 

Pound reporting 200 per month
Pound reporting 60 per month
Pound reporting 250 per month
Pound reporting 50 per month
Pound reporting 32 per month

Number of dogs sold to VA dealer:

 

1 Pound reporting 65 per month
1 Pound reporting 120 per month
1 Pound not disclosing number.

Number of dogs sold directly to VA agencies:

 

1 Pound reporting 200 per month.
1 Pound reporting 125 per month
1 Pound not disclosing number

NUMBER OF DOGS SOLD TO OUT OF STATE DEALERS BY VA POUNDS IN 1980: 9324

 

NUMBER OF DOGS SOLD T0 VA DEALER BY VA POUNDS IN 1980: 2220

 

NUMBER OF DOGS SOLD TO VA AGENCIES BY VA POUNDS IN 1980: 4260

 

TOTAL NUMBER OF VA DOGS GOING TO DEALERS AND RESEARCH IN 1980: 15804

 

These reported missing dogs were taken off their chains, stolen from
fenced yards, cars, and homes. Cut collars, false animal wardens,
tranquilizer guns, dogs not shown to owners at pounds, cash sales,
dealers with keys to pounds, night hauling, witnessed theft, dogs with
identification, many spayed, neutered, some tattooed, 66% purebred.

Route 3, Box 6000 / Berryville, Virginia 2261] / Telephone 703-955—1278

 




ACTION 6‘! INC.

INFORMATION FROM A SAMPLING OF 1500 STOLEN DOGS REPORTED TO ACTION 81 IN

 

1986—7—8—9, and 1990.

 

1) STATES OF ORIGIN:

 

Minnesota
New York
Pennsylvania
Oregon
Georgia
Mississippi
New Mexico
California
Montana
Delaware
Alabama
Colorado
Arizona
Louisiana

Virginia

West Virginia
New Jersey
Washington, D.C.
North Carolina
Maryland
Indiana

New Hampshire
Tennessee
Michigan
Illinois
Missouri
Washington
Oklahoma

Florida

South Carolina
Vermont
Connecticut
Kentucky
Texas

Maine

Iowa
Massachusetts
ArkanSas
Wisconsin
Ohio

Rhode Island
South Dakota

BREEDS REPORTED MISSING: (in order of numbers reported)

 

Labrador Retriever

German Shepherd

Other Large Purebreds

Large Mixed Breeds

Golden Retriever Terriers

Beagles Other Small Purebreds

Siberian Husky Small Mixed Breeds

3) CIRCUMSTANCES OF THEFT REPORTED:

 

Collars and/or chains cut. Dogs taken from fenced yards.
Houses, kennels broken into. Some witnessed theft.

Vans disguised as animal control. Irregular pound operations.
Dogs lured from yards by high pitched whistles.

Vehicles with unregistered license tags seen with loads of dogs.
Giveaway dogs picked up under false pretenses and resold to dealers.
Dogs taken from porches, cars. Intent to steal clearly evident.

Unusual numbers of other dogs and cats missing in area.

N.B. The above pattern of breeds stolen and circumstances of theft
remains constant in the ACTION 81 current sampling in 1991.

Route 3, Box 6000 / Berryville, Virginia 22611 / Telephone 703-955-1278

 




ACTION 6!"! INC.

INDIVIDUAL REPORTS INCLUDED IN THE SAMPLING OF 1500 STOLEN/MISSING DOGS
REPORTED TO ACTION 81 IN 1986—7—8-9, AND 1990.

CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUAL REPORTS:

 

Direct: Report by individual to Action 81. Telephone or signed letter.
Indirect: Bulk numbers in areas of theft reported by an individual.
Telephone or signed letter.

Missing: Reason for disappearance unclear.
Believed stolen: Strong conviction by owner that theft has occurred.
Stolen: Indisputable signs of human involvement.

 

1974—1985: Statistics not yet compiled in total. 300 documented theft
cases between 1981—1985, individual theft reports from 26 states,

305 theft reports from 80 localities in Virginia, individual reports of
area theft from 40 states, Puerto Rico, Canada, and England.

 

Missing Believed Stolen Stolen

 

1986: 75 dogs 125 dogs 301 dogs
Reports from 29 states.

1987: 52 dogs, 4 cats 83 dogs 159 dogs
Reports from 24 states and Canada.

1988: 21 dogs 2 cats 59 dogs 576 dogs 44
Reports from 33 states.

1989: 14 dogs 1 cat 67 dogs 887 dogs 79
Reports from 28 states and Canada.

1990: 1 dog 1 cat 16 dogs 257 dogs 51
Reports from 24 states.

The above reports came directly from the owners. Approximately 300 dogs
were listed in individual bulk (indirect) reports of stolen dogs.

The dogs listed as STOLEN were taken from fenced enclosures, off chains,
picked up by strange vehicles in their own yards, and subjected to theft
by persons with intent to steal, using forcible entry etc..

IN ADDITION TO THE ABOVE, ACTION 81 RECEIVED BULK REPORTS FROM IRREGULAR
AND GENERAL SOURCES.

 

THE VOICE OF THE MISSING, 1982—1990, CONTAINS MISCELLANEOUS, ONE—YEAR
REPORTS TOTALING MORE THAN 200,000 MISSING DOGS AND 10,000 CATS FROM
AREAS ONLY, IN 22 STATES AND ONTARIO, CANADA.

 

 

THE SEVENTEEN YEAR COLLECTION OF SEVERAL HUNDRED MEDIA ARTICLES STRONGLY
SUBSTANTIATES THE NATIONWIDE SCOPE OF THE DOG AND CAT THEFT PROBLEM.

Route 3, Box 6000 / Berryville, Virginia 22611 / Telephone 703-955-1278

 




ACTION '6"! INC.

THE HUMAN VICTIMS OF DOG AND CAT THEFT

 

February, 1991..... Linda..... "I called and called his name... then I
went back to bed and cried and cried."

August 12, 1983 .....Shellie ..."I hope to god that they find my baby."

March 5, 1980 .... Shirley.. "We miss her so deeply. I still can't
believe it..I pray every night."

August 29, 1978... Deborah.."Cinnamon has vanished from my life. I know
now how you must have felt when you lost your dog."

February, 1982.. Helene..."I just can't deal with this.. I don't expect
any miracles from you— I guess it just helps knowing you care."

December 12, 1990... Martha.."We are still looking for Banner; I may go
crazy if I do not find him... He is so special to me. When my father
died this summer, Banner was the one who comforted me. He is a special
dog, and I will never forget him....."

August 19, 1982... Dr. Chuck Brady...$1000 REWARD OFFERED FOR "MORDY."
Male, Sealpoint Siamese cat, stolen from a leash in his yard.

"Every green meadow I pass I think I see you...playing in the long grass
swatting at daisies and bumble bees...Are you in God's heaven...I wish I
knew and until I do...in every green meadow I'll see you."

March 7, 1966... Dr. David Timrud, founder of the National Dog Registry.
Testimony in support of federal legislation to curb the theft of dogs
for sale to research laboratories. "I appear before this Committee as a
private citizen, not as a physician nor as a representative of the
University at which I work.... Our dog disappeared last October. After a
prolonged, thorough, fruitless search I had to write my son that the dog
he had chosen,.... the amiable companion he had raised from birth was
almost certainly stolen. The young man is a paratrooper in an airborne
unit overseas. When he comes home later this year, his service
completed, something live and joyous, a part of our lives together, will
be forever gone. This need not have been...... All states have
penalties for receiving, harboring, or transmitting stolen property._£
sometimes regret that the frontier penalty for cattle rustlers and horse
thieves is not applied to dog thieves..." (Underlines by Action 81)

 

July 15, 1989...Cheryl... "Thank you for all you have done to try and
end this horrible theft of our beloved pets. My border Collie was STOLEN
on July 10, 1989. I still look for him. It was the worst thing to EVER
happen to me. Many dogs are missing from my area.. German Shepherds and
black dogs, border Collies and cats. Dog warden thought to be a dealer.
Caught lying about having someone's dog. Men seen chasing dogs up street
with a long pole and net.. those dogs have disappeared. A man came into

 

Route 3, Box 6000 / Berryville, Virginia 22611 / Telephone 703-955—1278

 




my yard in December and tried to take my Doberman off his run. My
husband caught him and the man picked up a stick and hit him. My husband
unleashed the dog and the dog got the better of the man. He was never
seen again! I'll always miss Digger and would rather know that he had
been hit by a car than suffer as a lab animal! Thanks for the Prayer."

May 19, 1981.... Tom.. "Your note really struck home.. Mimi was a member
of the family and indeed we have had sleepless nights and heartaches
during the day. I am not ashamed to say that my wife and I have cried a
flood of tears..... We have had Mimi since she was just a baby, and we
have enjoyed her so much for eleven years... Everyone who saw her and
especially we thought she was one of the prettiest poodles they had ever
seen. Her regular evening walks, her nightly spoonful of ice cream, and
her snuggling up on the foot of our bed are sorely missed.... I was sick
in bed the summer of 1976, and Mimi stayed at my bedside the entire
time. Thank you for your prayers for Mimi. Our prayers are with you.
("Lets take Mimi for a ride" was heard outside.. the night she vanished.

H

June 16, 1984... Joyce.."Oreo was STOLEN April 19, 1984 from my parents'
home in Orlando, FL. She is a Llasa Apso, AKC, sp..I gave her to my
younger sister when my father was diagnosed with terminal cancer in '82.
I hoped she could find comfort in the love of a puppy, perhaps a
diversion from stress at that time. Oreo became the sunshine in
everyone's days, especially for my mother. Mother suffered a heart
attack in Jan., and Oreo was constantly with her. April 19 my mother and
Oreo were at the mailbox when Oreo started running down the street,
Mother after her, calling her name. An old car, no lie. tag, drove
beside Oreo, a man opened the door and scooped Oreo up without stopping,
Mother running after them calling for Oreo. The problems my family has
had have been devastating for all of us. We called the police with no
response, the local paper showed no interest, so we have given up hope.
If I'm searching for miracles, please be honest and......tell me."

July 25, 1990... Bill..."Warren Eckstein KABC radio Los Angeles referred
me to you. Our dog was stolen from our yard on May 28, 1990. He was
just a mutt but all heart and the love of our family."

 

November 28, 1988... Steve.."Three years ago our Golden Retriever "Hans"
came up missing one morning from our side porch. At first I couldn't
believe that he had been STOLEN, but as time went on and more info came
to light, it became quite obvious that he had indeed been STOLEN....

I spent a small fortune trying, in vain, to locate Hans. During that
process I met Mary Warner of Action 81. Mary was a victim, of dog theft
several years ago, and that incident prompted her to begin Action 81.
.......Dog theft seems so remote and unbelievable, that normal people,
when told of it, don't really take it all that seriously.... MAKE NO
MISTAKE! ONCE YOUR PET IS STOLEN YOU WILL LEARN THINGS THAT WILL MAKE A
BELIEVER OUT OF YOU! For starters, the potential for financial gain is
awesome! Dogs are bought from "batchers" for somewhere in the range of
$50—$75, processed for paperwork and re—sold to researchers for upwards
to $500 EACH!!! When you calculate the number of dogs that fit in the
back of one tractor trailer, and multiply that figure times the dollars
outlined above, the PROFIT MOTIVE BECOMES QUITE OBVIOUS.

 

 

 




I received one call from a "licensed dog dealer" in S.C.(obviously
anxious for the reward). He had 13 Golden Retrievers at his place
AWAITING SALE TO LABS FOR RESEARCH._I asked him how he came upon 13
purebred Golden Retrievers all at one time..His reply was "People get
sick of them as pets and just drop them off!"

A call from Brown University said that they had a Golden Retriever like
Hans— how much did they pay for full grown, large purebred dogs? Between
$400—$500!!! Why not use more purpose bred dogs? "Abandoned" dogs are
much easier to work with, as former pets are "people—conditioned" and
purpose bred dogs are not! Brown University said they were buying one or
two TRUCKLOADS each week."

 

Spring, 1980..... Audrey..."We will probably never know the fate that
awaited our friend and companion of twelve years. Maybe his suffering
and grief were soon ended, after he disappeared. It has been two years
since I last saw my friend. Time has healed my broken heart, but my
grief has turned to bitterness and anger. The search goes on, not for my
dog, but for the person who STOLE MY DOG...,,. Why did you do it?.......
What kind of individual are you?..... I would have gladly given anything
else I possessed, but not my dog. He was a part of my family... a part
of me... How much were you paid? $5 or $500? Was he put on a truck and
hauled hundreds of miles to be reconditioned for some government—funded
laboratory? Laboratories pay real well— up to $500 and more.
Experimentation doesn't come CHEAP.... How about the man who operates
the dogfights? Surely you didn't get paid much because this guy needs
Quantity... maybe 75—80 dogs to train his champion Pit Bull. Did you
stay for the fight? and enjoy it? Did the back—yard breeder pay you
well? He should have because my dog was a purebred. Did you LOVE my dog
as I LOVED him? Was this the reason you STOLE my dog? The answer is NO!
YOU STOLE MY DOG FOR GREED, MONEY, OR MAYBE JUST KICKS...I really don't
want to know you because I have never met a person without a heart, a
conscience, or some kind of compassion..... My dog—and—friend never met
one either until the day you took him away. I hope and pray your
calloused attitude is not directed towards your fellow man, and.......
...................MAY YOU RECEIVE YOUR JUST REWARD"....................

 

 

 

 

 

 

ACTION 81 has received several hundred letters from human victims of dog
and cat theft. Many are extremely tragic.... a blind man losing his 3
beagles to theft while he was running them... a blind woman walking her
dog and hearing the thief carry out the theft. Victims of cancer losing
the bedside companion to theft... The human victims have suffered
complete nervous breakdowns, job loss, temporary spells of blindness.
The PAIN is not confined to adults. Children refuse to eat, sleep, and
concentrate on school work when their pets are taken.

Compassion is needed to HEAR the agonies of the human owners. One
gallant woman wrote in that Action 81 had given her the "light at the
end of the tunnel" by just "being there."

My own beloved "Copper" was STOLEN in 1974. A gentle, loyal, dependent,
obedience—trained German Shepherd. Channeled through the SYSTEM....
WHAT EFFECT DID THE LOSS OF THIS FAMILY MEMBER AND FRIEND HAVE ON ME?
..... THE START OF ACTION 81...l7 YEARS IN THE TRAGIC, BRUTAL, STRUGGLE
TO STOP THE TRAFFICKING OF STOLEN DOGS AND CATS TO TAX-FUNDED RESEARCH.

 

 




Thursday March 28, 1991

Ms. Desiree Sensabaugh
P. 0. BOX 696
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Action 81
Ht. 3 Box 6000
Berryville, Virginia 22611

Dear Sir or Madam:

On Friday, March 22, 1991, my beloved dog, Maggie, disappeared. In the five years
that she has been with me, she has never stayed out over—night. I have contacted
all of the animal hospitals, the county pound, the county and city dog wardens,
and the SPCA. I have also placed ads in the local papers and distributed posters
in the vicinity. The SPCA Manager gave me your address and suggested that I send
a copy of the poster, in the hope that your agency could provide some much needed
assistance.

There has been a sudden increase of the disappearance of pets in this area, although
most of these animals have been pure~breeds. I, with the help of family and friends,
have searched the rural area where I live, but to no end. Although she may have been
hurt or even died while near home, we have found no trace of her. It is my belief

and the belief of the City Dog Warden, Officer Clark, of the Lexington Police Dep—
artment, that Maggie may have been stolen. If this is the case, and if the person

or persons responsible for Maggie's abduction are caught, I fully intend to prosecute.

I have enclosed a copy of the poster and a color picture of Maggie. The poster is
self—explanatory, but I want to add that she is a small dog, weighing about 20 to
25 pounds. She is well-mannered and friendly, even with strangers. She has been
spayed and had all necessary shots.

I would be eternally grateful for any help or information that your organization
may be able to provide. However, I would like to thank you in advance for having

formed this wonderful organization to give the animal-lovers and pet—owners, like
me, a place to come to for compassion and help.

Sincerely yours

Desiree Sensabaugh

Enclosure

VDS/vds

 




0 MY BELOVED FRIEND, NOBLE 0
0 MORE GLIMPSES OF LIFE 0 THE GENTLE APPROACH 0

FEBRUARY 1987

ISSN. #0001-2831

 

 

MAGAZINE

The Journal of The American Anti-ViviseciiOh Society, Established 1883

 

 

 

 

 

 

COLE McFARLAND AND NOBLE

If you doubt that love
is the most powerful force
consider the heroic act
of one man for his dog.

 




 

THE

  

MAGAZINE

 

 

Volume LXXXXV No. a

February 1987

 

CONTENTS

THE PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE ...................
REPORTS/COMMENTS: PRO, CON, ETC. ...........
GLEANINGS ..................................
MY BELOVED FRIEND, NOBLE ..................
THE ’TEEN WINDOW: MORE GLIMPSES OF LIFE . . . .

THE GENTLE APPROACH .......................

CONSERVATION, ANIMAL RIGHTS AND HUMAN

SURVIVAL: THE ESSENTIAL CONNECTION. . .

VOICES .....................................

TRIBUTES ...................................

EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS AVAILABLE

FROM AA-VS ...........................

(To order materials, use form on
INSIDE BACK COVER)

'1o

12

13

14

15

16

19

20

 

(The Individual views expressed in The AV Magazine do not
necessarily reﬂect the policy of The American Anti-Viviscction
Society.)

 

--——_—_.-.u

_ 4f. Mitt/AL rr‘trkmm

 

    

 

 

i Editor

WILLIAM A. CAVE

Contributing Editor
ROBERT G. HUDSON

Associate Editor
WILLIAM G. KELLEY

THE AV _(USPS 002-660) is published
monthly (except August) Under the auspices
of The American Anti-Vivisection Society.
WILLIAM A. CAVE, President. Subscrip—,
tion Price: $|0.00 per year. Second class

.postage paid at Philadelphia. Pa. OFFICE

OF PUBLICATION, Suite 204 Noble Plaza.
80l Old York Road. lenkintown. Pa. l9046—
1685. Telephone: 215-887-0816.

POSTMASTER: Send Change of
Address to Address Below

Articles, poetry and pertinent
information may be submitted to the
editors of AV for possible publication.
Please enclose a SASE for the return of
unacceptable material. Letters to the
Editors of AV are assumed intended for
publication, and may be used for such
purposes in whole or in part. We also
appreciate receiving newspaper and
magazine clippings, including their source
and date of publication.

When sending funds or making
bequests, please use our legal title:
The American
Anti-Vivisection Society
Suite. 204 Noble Plaza
801 Old York Road
Jenkintown, Pa. 19046-1685

ORGANIZED 1883

Member, World Coalition for the
Abolition of Experiments on Mankind
and Animals
and
The International Association
Against Painful Experiments

on Animals l

 

 

 

 

 

 




I‘ll

 

 

 

 

 

 

b} William A. Cave

THE PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE

 

Frequently during the year we receive telephone calls, post cards, letters, clippings and even
publications of various other humane organizations, all descriptive of terrible cruelty to animals
and usually demanding that we do something about it.

Being on the mailing list of every (or nearly every) English-speaking humane organization on
this planet, so it seems, we are all too aware of the atrocities visited upon animals everywhere.

Our Society was formed for the sole purpose of bringing vivisection to an end, and most of these
cases are entirely out of our province. We have no police powers whatever and cannot bring action
against any known or suspected perpetrators.

This is the case even with laboratory animals. While painfully aware of the cruel and repetitious
ordeals to which they are subjected, we have no legal remedies as long as the law permits an
experimenter to decide whether or not to withhold anesthesia.

Where local laws deal with cruelty to domestic animals, the local SPCA does have police powers
and can bring action with the cooperation of the person who reports the crime.

The solution to all of the cruelties reported to us is obvious. Remedial laws must be initiated;
present laws amended if necessary, and enforced. Your Society’s staff will continue to devote its
labors and resources to exposing the abuses of vivisection so that an aroused public will demand
legislative reform.

YES

When it is available about May 1, we will be sending to all recipients of The AV Magazine the new
edition of TELL IT TO WASHINGTON ——A Guide for Citizen Action, which includes the new
Congressional Directory.

 

 

 

ATTENTION ALL ACTIVISTS!

Please send details of your intended programs, demonstrations and activities for marking
World Week for Laboratory Animals, so that notice of your intentions can be given in AV
Magazine. World Week for Laboratory Animals 1987 encompasses the week of April 19-April
25. Remember that you beneﬁt from seeing your action publicized through the AV, which is
received by thousands of other activists around the country. Write to us today! The deadline
for announcements is March 1.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MEMBER SEEKS CONTACT

The following member would like to be contacted by other members of The American Anti—
Vivisection Society in his area:

Lancaster Animal Defense League, c/o jimm Groff, 847 N. Maple Street, Ephrata, PA 17522.

“M
BEQUESTS

Through the years we have operated successfully because of the support received from many kindly
disposed persons—especially those who remember our Society in their Wills. Persons wishing to become
benefactors of The American Anti-Vivisection Society should consult an attorney or incorporate the
following provisions in their Wills:

“I bequeath to The American Anti-Vivisection Society, Suite 204 Noble Plaza, 801 Old York Road,
Jenkintown, Pa. 19046-1685, the sum of ................................. to be applicable to the general
purposes of the Society.” (Or, if so desired, “to be applicable solely to its Restricted Fund for Development
of Alternatives to Animals in Research”)

The AV February 1.987 - 1

 




 

 

 

 

REPORTS/COMMENTSJPRO, con, ETC.

 

THE MOVE AGAINST LAB
DISSECTIONS

Remember your high school biology class? The
day of dissection there was a lot of discomfort,
but little, if any, dissension.

Now alternatives to dissection and vivisection
are emerging—plastic replicas, videotapes, com-
puterized simulation. Yet for graduate-level biol-
ogy students with ethical reservations about some
uses of animals in laboratory classes, often there
is no recourse.

Kevin Winterfield, who recently left the grad-
uate pharmacology/toxicology program at the
University of California, Davis, can attest. He ob-
jected to a procedure performed in the depart-
ment lab in which six live rabbits were
anesthetized. Next, their jugular veins were ex-
posed and catheters inserted. The students then
injected radioactive isotopes in various places to
determine how long it took the isotopes to enter
and exit the rabbits’ bloodstreams. Winterfield
calls it a “Classic experiment,” one that has been
repeated thousands of times and of which the
result is well-known. After the 90-minute exer-
cise, the rabbits were to be euthanized.

However, Winterfield claims the simple exper-
iment went disturbingly wrong: Only one rabbit
survived until the end, two died while being an-
esthetized, and three awoke during the procedure
and began squeaking.

Another student backs up Winterfield’s story.
Dr. Marion Miller, the course instructor, would
not comment. Dr. Phillip Tillman, campus veter-
inarian at Davis, whose office monitors charges
of animal abuse, says Winterfield’s version “sure
is different from what I heard” from other faculty
members.

After Winterfield refused to do more lab work
involving animals, his grade in the class was
docked 2 percent. He has left the pharmacology/
toxicology program but continues to speak out on
the animals in experiments issue.

He is part of a new breed of animal rights ac-
tivist surfacing in campuses across the country:
biology students who not only express their moral
objections to vivisection, but who also are ques-
tioning the educational necessity of certain pro-
cedures involving animals.

Student groups have taken up the cause at Rut-
gers, Davis, Berkeley, Amherst, Wesleyan and
other universities.

Dr. Neal Barnard, chairman of the Physicians
Committee for Responsible Medicine (PCRM), re-
ports that in the last few years medical students
have protested the traditional freshman “dog labs”
at New York Medical College, New York Univer-
sity at Buffalo, Northwestern University and
Mount Sinai in New York City.

Richard Ferguson, 3 second-year medical Stu-

2 - February 1987

 

dent at NYU-Buffalo, describes his department
chairman as being “very decent” about his re-
quest to not participate in the vivisection of dogs
and rabbits. He was not penalized, and after
covering the lab’s topics on his own through read-
ing, he claims to have placed second out of a class
of 140 on the required exam.

How necessary is the use of animals in educa-
tion? Dr. joel A. Michael of Rush—Presbyterian-
St. Luke’s Medical Center is quoted in a recent
report by the Congressional Office of Technology
Assessment (OTA) as saying, “Any experienced
teacher of physiology knows that the ‘feeling’ of
a beating heart in the opened chest of a dog does
more to reinforce the lessons about cardiac phys-
iology than any words can speak.”

Dr. Edward Rhode, dean of the School of Vet-
erinary Medicine at Davis, feels that “it is essen-
tial to have animal use” in medical and veterinary
schools so that students can develop confidence
in their abilities.

However, animal rights activists like to note
that England, with its more apprentice-like train—
ing system, has long been opposed to almost all
vivisection. The only exception allowed is in
learning microscopic surgery to repair damaged
blood vessels or nerves.

Likewise, PCRM’s Barnard, who teaches at
George Washington University, one of many
American schools that do not allow vivisection,
says, “I never touched an animal in my education.
These animal labs are pointless at best, and use-
less and harmful at worst.”

The OTA Report surveyed animal use at 16
unidentified US. medical schools and found that
even in the most animal-intensive disciplines —
physiology, surgery and pharmacology — only
slightly more than half of the schools use ani-
ma 3.

Savings is a more likely reason than ethical
considerations for the apparent trend away from
animal use, according to Winterfield, since many
alternative materials, such as computer pro-
grams, videotapes, mannequins and models, can
be used repeatedly.

With computer simulation, “Students can pose
emergency situations, make diagnoses, and try
different treatments,” according to Dr. I. Mailen
Kootsey of Duke University’s physiology and
computer departments. Students punch in num-
bers corresponding to different scenarios, and the
computer serves up a graphic display that “looks
the same as the readouts on actual laboratory
equipment,” said Kootsey.

However, animal rights activists charge that
universities are pressured to use animals not only
by scientific traditionalists, but also by animal
breeders. The market is large: according to the
OTA, 20 million animals died for science in 1985.

The AV

 

 




 

 

 

REPORTS/COMMENTS: PRO, CON, ETC.

 

 

 

 

 

But no one knows exactly how large the‘market
is because the biggest animal suppliers are pri-
vately held companies that do not have to dis-
close earnings.

The anti-vivisection movement has found a
foothold at a few high schools as well. Rosa Parks
of an organization called Student Action Corps
for Animals (SACA) reports that each year sev-
eral high school students make contact in search
of advice. One of them, Merideth Silversteen, a
senior from Oradell, N .j., says, “Disregarding stu-
dents’ ethical standards and deadening their sen-
sitivity is a high price to pay for education.”

She may not want to spend her college career
at Davis. Winterfield apparently alarmed that
university’s administration. Dr. Ned Buyuk-
mihci, a veterinarian medicine instructor who
sympathized with Winterfield, has been warned
by school officials to stop his practice of arrang-
ing alternatives to vivisection for students who
request them.

“I’m lucky in that I’m tenured,” said Buyuk-
mihci. “But for the students, their whole life is at
stake.”

Michael McMorrow
Pacific News Service

0

THE STUDENT’S RIGHT TO
‘DO NO HARM’

The American Medical Student Association
(AMSA) has responded to the concerns of its
members about the use of animals in medical
education. The AMSA House of Delegates this
year adopted the new Principles Regarding Viv-
isection in Medical Education. This resolution
supports giving students complete information
about procurement and treatment of the lab ani-
mals before the lab begins “so that medical stu-
dents can make their own informed ethical
decisions.” The resolution “condemns the prac-
tice of faculty intimidation of medical students
to force them to attend classes and labs using live
animals.”

It further calls for alternatives to the use of non—
human animals in the classroom, and urges that
a directory of alternative educational materials
such as films, videotapes and computer simula-
tion be produced. It also “condemns laxity in the
administration of anesthesia and analgesia” dur-
ing and after surgery, and calls for humane care
and treatment of animals before and after proce-
dures.

The resolution was amended during debate to
affirm the justification for the use of animals in
medicine “if such use will save or benefit human
lives,” but then differentiates between “vivisec-
tion in medical research . . . and vivisection in
medical education, which is the demonstration
of already well—known facts and techniques.” The

The AV

 

resolution urges that all such labs be optional for
students who object.

Susanna Walsh, one of the resolution’s spon-
sors, explains her position: “We were told that
the dog lab was necessary to give us the feel of
living tissue. But it occurred at the beginning of
our second year, when we knew nothing at all
about the principles of surgery . . . The people
running the dog lab were not MDs. They had no
idea about the training we needed or what we
would be getting in the operating room. In the
operating room, we assisted at human heart trans-
plants. The dog lab was totally irrelevant.”

Students who are intimidated when they re-
fuse to participate in animal labs now have the
support of AMSA’s Principles. In addition, the
resolution tacitly confirms what many observers
have suggested: that animal labs in medical edu-
cation are objectionable to many students, and
that they are not essential to medical education.

PCRM Update

Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine
(Ed. Note: PCRM has supported many medical stu-
dents who, individually and collectively, have cho-
sen not to use animals in their coursework. Now its
aid to medical students goes a'step further. It will
contact all U. 8. medical students, backing their right
to make their own decisions in this regard.

In cooperation with the American Medical Stu-
dent Association, PCRM will provide an informa-
tion brochure to all medical students, detailing the
support of ASMA and PCRM for those who choose
not to participate in animal labs. Medical students
should write to: R0. Box 6322, Washington, D.C.
20015).

0

REPORT ON USE OF ANIMALS
IN SURGICAL TRAINING OF
VETERINARY MEDICAL STUDENTS

By Nedim C. Buyukmihci, VMD

University of California, Davis

School of Veterinary Medicine
Department of Surgery

Many students, both veterinary medical and
pre-veterinary, are concerned with the nature of
surgical training at various veterinary medical
schools. The major concern expressed to me is
with whether animals are allowed to recover from
anesthesia. A secondary concern is with the source
of the animals. As a result, I conducted a survey
to find out how these aspects of surgical training
were being handled at the Z7 veterinary medical
schools in the US. The administrators of the
schools were asked the following questions:

I. What species of animals are used in your
surgery training program and from where
are they obtained?

2. Does your program allow animals used for

(continued on next page)

February 1987 - 3




 

 

 

REPORTS/COMMENTS: PRO, CON, ETC.
practice surgery to recover from anes- Florida, U Of COW dealer yes
thesia at any point or are they killed with- dog pound/dealer yes
out recovery (nonsurvival)? horse dealer yes
3. If the answer to question 2 is yes, how Illinois, Uof cow dealer yes
many surgical exercise sessions are done dog dealer yes
with an individual animal? How much time goat dealer yes
is allowed between each session? Please Pony dealer Yes
list the surgical procedures done at each Kansas State U cow dealer no (1986]
of the sessions on an individual animal. (19% goulnd I10 883%
The results of the survey, which was done in 5111: ep (1:212: 33 (1986)
1986’ are as follows. Louisiana cat pound yes
Number of responses out of 27 requests: 18. State U cow dealer/ yes
Number of responses answering the questions: (I donation
15. og poun yes
In many cases, the responses included much hOI‘SG dealer/ . YES
more information than was requested. Because donation
the major question had to do with whether Sheep dealer/ , yes
survival surgery was permitted, I felt it would donation
be fair to all only to include information di- MiChigan StateU COW donation 110
rectly related to this. dog $1825 gifted) 11:5
The dog was the most widely used animal. pony donation y
Most of the schools allowed survival surgery sheep donation yes
(see table) with at least 1 recovery from anes- Mississippi cat dealer yes
thesia. In some cases there were 3 surgical ses- State U dog dealer yes
sions with 2 recoveries from anesthesia (multiple Mi S S ouri- dog dealer y e S
survival). The interval between surgical ses- Columbia’UOf goat dealer yes
sions ranged from 1 day to 4 weeks. horse (not stated) yes
Minor procedures or those for which postop- Ohio State U dog pound/dealer yes
erative pain was considered not severe were horse donation yes
done on a survival basis. More invasive pro- pig dealer yes
cedures or those considered to have a greater Sheep dealer yes
likelihood of severe postoperative pain were Oklahoma dog pound YES
done when the animal was going to be killed State U pony (“Qt Stated) yes
at the end of the session (terminal procedure). Sheep (not Stated) yes
judgment as to whether a particular procedure Pennsylvania, dog breeder yes
was minor or major seemed to be fairly con- U 9f_
sistent among the different schools. In some Vﬂglmla' d dﬁg goulnd/ yes
cases, for example, stifle joint surgery, some Rearycari S 88p ea Er yes
allowed survival and others did these as ter- g', 0 ' 111‘ ouse
minal procedures. Washlngton cat pound no
For the purposes of this report, “pound” means State U ﬂog gountd yes
any facility to which unwanted animals or stray £5323 (1221:“ Y:
animals are taken, “dealer” means anyone en— . . p y
gaged in the buying or selling of animals for Wlsconsm’ UOf fiat dealer YES
og dealer yes

profit, and “breeder” means any establishment
which breeds animals on its premises. It is rec-
ognized that “dealer” and “breeder” are often
one and the same.

Surgical Training of Veterinary
Medical Students

It is my belief that the teaching of surgical prin-
ciples requires the use of living animals. How-
ever, if animals not needing the surgery are going
to be used (“practice animals”), I feel it is imper—
ative that they not be allowed to recover from

 

Survival anesthesia. The surgical training we give veteri-

School Species Source surgery nary medical students is very basic and brief; it
California, U of dog pound no does not make surgeons of them. At best, for the
horse dealer/ yes average student, it may increase their confidence

donation . and initiate them to the complexities of surgery.

sheep client/dealer yes In training them we concentrate on concepts rather

Cornell U dog in—house yes than specific procedures per se. Therefore, any
breeding program that would accomplish the same thing

pony dealer yes should be acceptable. There is no need for the

Sheep dealer yes animals to suffer in the process, which all would

4 - February 1987 The AV

 

 




 

 

REPORTS/COMMENTS: PRO, CON, ETC.

do to some degree if allowed to recover from anes-
thesia after surgery. The students can obtain the
needed experience in postoperative care in their
clinical year during which they will care for pa-
tients who needed the surgery. As a result, both
the students and the patients benefit.

Ideally, it would be highly desirable to teach
surgical principles using actual patients who need
the surgery. There are no morally relevant differ—
ences between, for example, the dogs we use in a
surgery class and dogs who have a human guard-
ian. Animals from either group have the same
capacity to suffer or to enjoy life. They have the
same inherent right to share the experience of
living on this planet. It matters not, from a moral
perspective, whether the dogs are “purpose” bred
for the surgery class or they are taken from the
pound. As in the training of surgeons for people,
veterinary medical students, with proper super-
vision and time, can learn by using actual pa-
tients. It is my hope that the US veterinary schools
will eventually adopt this type of program as has
been done in the United Kingdom. In the mean-
time, I hope all will phase out survival surgery.

0
AUTHOR REVERSES VIEWS
ON ANIMAL RIGHTS

The july, 1986 issue of The AV Magazine con-
tained a review and comment on a new book by
Michael Allen F ox—The Case for Animal Ex—
perimentation: An Evolutionary and Ethical
Perspective. The review was rather scathing and
the comment questioned the logic of a teacher of
philosophy. Now we cite a response from Fox in
response to a review in The Scientist, December
15, 1986.

In their reviews of my book The Case for
Animal Experimentation ( THE SCIENTIST,
October 20, 1986, p. 19, 20, 22), Robert E.
Burke and Jerrold Tannenbaum agree that it
succeeds in explaining the nature of scien-
tific research involving animals and in elu-
cidating the requirements of humaneness.
Tannenbaum, however, expresses the opin-
ion that the philosophical argument of the
book is “superficial, dogmatic and uncon-
vincing” (p. 19). He concludes that I “offer a
curmudgeonly philosophy that begrudges in
principle the humane and decent sentiments
[I] would apply in practice” (p. 22).

Ihave to agree with Tannenbaum. Since I
wrote the book, Ihave come to be profoundly
dissatisfied with the approach I took, based
on rights possession and a narrow definition
of the moral community. Ihave come to be—
lieve that attempts to justify the use of ani-
mals for experimentation convince no one
except for the already—converted. This is be-
cause they rest on a hierarchical conception
of ethics and of the relationship between hu-

The AV

 

mans and nature which I assumed in the book
and which many, now including myself, see
reason to reject. There is no nonarbitrary
ground on which to argue that the differences
between humans and animals, morally rele-
vant though some of them may be, make hu-
mans morally superior and animals inferior
or valueless forms of life.

I now think that because humans are the
dominant species on the planet, they have
decided to use animals in certain ways and
will not yield the advantages thereby gained.
But with the power to control nature goes the
responsibility to exercise wisdom and hu-
maneness at all times, and to be especially
concerned and caring toward sensitive beings
of whatever species that are at our mercy. It
is impossible for humans to escape fully from
their anthropocentric standpoint. Evalua-
tions of things and of features of the world
will always be made, and will always reflect
their human origin.

This, among other reasons, is why I still
have trouble accepting the notion that ani-
mals have moral rights. But I now see no
difficulty with the View that we have moral
obligations toward them because of the char-
acteristics we recognize in them He, there
can be obligations even in the absence of cor-
relative rights).

So I find myself, nine months after my book’s
publication, in radical disagreement with
some of its major theses. Arriving at this point
has been both painful and exhilarating.
Nevertheless, I think the book contains some
merits, not the least of which is that it will
further debate and reveal a few directions not
worth pursuing.

(Ed. Note: Oh well, better late than never.)
0
THE RIGHT OF REPLY

Re: “A British Tragedy of Major Proportions”

The AV Magazine
Sir:

I trust you will grant me the right of reply to
Bernard Unti’s grossly distorted report, “A Brit—
ish Tragedy of Major Proportions,” on the new
legislation governing animal experimentation in
Great Britain (The AV, September 1986).

In 1979 this Committee, which includes rep-
resentation from the RSPCA and the Scottish So-
ciety for the Prevention of Vivisection, set out
four main objectives for new legislation: the re-
striction of pain, a very substantial reduction in
the number of animals used, the development
and use of humane alternative methods of re-
search and public accountability.

[continued on next page)

February 1987 ° 5

 




 

 

 

REPORTS/COMMENTS: PRO, CON, ETC.

 

The Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986
provides legislative machinery to achieve these
objectives. The most important element which
Mr. Unti completely fails to mention is the re-
sponsibility placed on the Home Secretary to make
a judgment on the scientific merit of the work he
authorises for which he will be answerable to
Parliament. “In determining whether and on what
terms to grant a project license the Secretary of
State shall weigh the likely adverse effects on the
animals concerned against the benefit likely to
accrue as a result of the programme to be speci-
fied in the licence.” Public accountability is,
without doubt, the most important element in
legislation of this kind and one which I am sure
animal societies in the USA would be delighted
to achieve.

If it is not possible to abolish all animal-based

research at present, then the best solution, which .

Mr. Unti denigrates, must surely be a cost/benefit
equation linking the degree of “severity” (which
includes not only pain, distress or suffering but
the whole state of the animal’s wellbeing) with
the relevance and importance to man or animal
and the research to be undertaken.

There are many other improvements not least
of which is the powers granted to the Home Sec—
retary to bring about further reforms without
amending legislation; a statutory Animal Proce-
dures Committee with four welfare representa-
tives and with power to act on its own initiative;
a dual licensing system; and two named persons
within each laboratory, one a veterinary surgeon
to be responsible for the day-to-day care, welfare
and wellbeing of all animals whether under ex-
periment or not.

The exemption mentioned by Mr. Unti regard-
ing training in microsurgical techniques is a red
herring. Such work was previously performed
using decerebrate animals which, under the new
legislation, becomes a regulated procedure. Liv-
ing animals will be permitted to be used in de-
veloping microsurgery techniques but such work
will only be permitted on terminally anaesthe-
tized animals and after approval has been granted
by the Animal Procedures Committee.

I enclose for your information a copy of a re-
print of an article which appeared in The Lancet
and which is available from this office.

Those who believe that the Animals (Scientific
Procedures) Act 1986 is either a vivisectors charter
or merely expensive window-dressing fail to un-
derstand, or do not wish to understand, the real

progress which has been achieved in bringing -

about greater protection for laboratory animals.
Yours faithfully,
Clive Hollands
Secretary
Committee for the Reform
of Animal Experimentation

O

6 - February 1987

 

A REPLY TO CLIVE HOLLANDS

I do not believe that the cost/benefit approach
which Clive Hollands considers to be the key-
stone of the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act
1986 can be viewed as a genuine advance for
laboratory animals. The cost/benefit paradigm only
affirms the ideology by which other species are
forced to die on our behalf. Real progress can
result only when animals are emancipated from
the ideology and circumstances of this paradigm.

It will be a glorious day indeed when the Brit-
ish Home Office rejects a project license on the
grounds that an experiment is futile, poorly de-
signed or possibly redundant. But experimenters
have always managed to see that even the most
questionable of their manipulations are acknowl-
edged as essential to the progress of human health
and/or the national defense. Recognizing the
pressures which the vested interests can exert on
committees of even the highest integrity, I think
that it is clear that animals cannot be saved from
even the most frivolous or brutal experimental
procedures if someone really wants to carry them
out. The only way to guarantee the protection of
animals from such procedures is to ban them out-
right, essentially what the Mobilisation for Lab-
oratory Animals (comprised of Animal AID, the
British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection,
the National Anti-Vivisection Society, and the
Scottish Anti-Vivisection Society) asked the
Government to do. The Mobilisation’s platform
was abolitionist only in relation to the most odious
of experiments, and, in my judgment, still con-
formed to Lord Houghton’s definition of a grad—
ualist approach to the problem of vivisection.

I am not at all confident that the mechanism
devised by the British government will be relia-
ble and responsible in examining such uses of
animals and ruling them out on a case—by-case
basis. This mechanism was, after all, institution-
alized by a government which lacked the integ-
rity to condemn even one single procedure, except
for a set of head injury experiments carried out
across the Atlantic at the University of Pennsyl-
vania. The impression I have of this review proc—
ess is that even the most abhorrent procedures
may be sometimes justified and that their pro-
ponents can expect a fair hearing before the Sci-
entific Advisory Committee.

The framers of the vaunted pain clause appar-
ently want us to give serious consideration to the
suggestion that very high levels of pain are ac-
ceptable so long as the experiment is one of ex-
traordinary merit and promise. I am sure that
animals will always be the losers when the prob-
lem is seen in these terms, and my only comfort
comes from the fact that a significant number of
Members of Parliament rejected this entire pro-
posal in favor of the Mobilisation demands.

It might constitute a measure of progress if the

The AV

 

 




 

 

 

REPORTS/COMMENTS: PRO, CON. ETC.

Home Secretary would actually exercise his right
to make further statutory improvements in time.
But this doesn’t seem likely as long as David
Mellor enjoys these duties. What can really be
said about someone who would go on record be-
fore a television audience to express his convic-
tion that an anti-dandruff shampoo must be
regarded as an important medical advance?

I am also not inclined to trust any Act of Par-
liament so readily supported by the likes of
Michael Balls, the Director of the Fund for the
Replacement of Animals in Medical Experi-
ments (FRAME), an enthusiastic vivisector who
devotes more column space in FRAME NEWS to
malicious gossip than to reports on the develop-
ment of non-animal methods, the stated interest
of that organization. He showed his colors by
arranging for the introduction of a last minute
amendment which seems to open up the possi-
bility that animals might be re-used without suit—
able anaesthesia for the interim between
experiments.

Finally, what should we expect of a bill which
satisfies the vested interests whose financial wel-
fare depends on the perpetuation of this unhappy
practice? Their presence in the shadows makes it
improbable that the Home Office will ever begin
to satisfy animal welfarists with dramatic rulings
on the impropriety of certain forms of experi-
mentation.

If there is any success to be claimed, it must be
found in the very fact that animal experimenta-
tion came up for debate at all in a country with
such profound social and political problems as
Great Britain has today. I personally favored the
approach of the Mobilisation for Laboratory An-
imals because I felt that its objections and de-
mands got down to the essence of the issue, which
is the continued imprisonment and suffering of
animals for dubious purposes. Until we gain firm
acknowledgement that some experiments and tests
are unacceptable irrespective of the likely bene-
fits, we are not really headed along the right road.

Bernard Unti

AA-VS
(Ed. Note: As we go to press, AV Magazine has
learned that, following a recent Parliamentary re-
shuffle, David Mellor no longer has responsibility
for laboratory animals as part of his duties with
the Home Office. It is safe to say thatfew animal
activists will lament the exclusion of Mr. Mellor
from the expanding vivisection bureaucracy.

Mr. Mellor’s replacement is Douglas Hogg, MP,
Whose duties as Parliamentary Under-Secretary
of State include the police, crime prevention, civil
defense, elections and local by-laws as well as an-
imals.

As for David Mellor, he still holds his own seat
in Parliament. In addition, he now enjoys a new
distinction resulting from his association with
FRAME, the British Veterinary Association, and
the Committee for the Reform of Animal Experi-

The AV

 

mentation (Mr. Hollands’ group). Mr. Mellor was
recently appointed an Honorary Associate of the
British Veterinary Association.)

6

RELIGION, SCIENCE AND ANIMALS
by Ashley Montagu

Although definitions cannot be meaningful at
the beginning of an inquiry, but can only be so at
the end of one, I should like to begin with a
description, at least, of what I as an anthropolo-
gist consider religion to be. Sir Edward Burnett
Tylor, in 1871, offered as a “minimum defini-
tion,” “the belief in spiritual beings.”1* That def—
inition has, at least, the merit of brevity. But
religion is, of course, much more than that rather
diaphanous view of it. Definitions of religion are
as numerous as the leaves of Vallombrosa; one I
have always liked, perhaps not a definition, but
certainly a description, is by the distinguished
scholar of religion, the late Stanley Arthur Cook.
“Religion,” he wrote, “primarily involves some
immediate consciousness of transcendent reali-
ties of supreme personal worth, vitally influenc-
ing life and thought, expressing themselves in
forms which are conditioned by the entire stage
of development reached by the individual and
his environment, and tending to become more
explicit and static in mythologies, theologies,
philosophies, and scientific doctrines.”2 A more
recent definition is by the anthropologist Clifford
Geertz. Religion as he sees it is, “(1) a system of
symbols which acts to (2) establish powerful, per-
vasive, and long-lasting moods and motivations
in men by (3) formulating conceptions of a gen-
eral order of existence and (4) clothing these con-
ceptions with such an aura of factuality that (5)
the moods and motivations seem uniquely real-
istic.”3

Religion is the grammar of the human soul. Just
as grammar constitutes the system of formal rules
by which meanings are conveyed in language, so
religion constitutes the system of formal rules by
which humans relate to those transcendent val-
ues to which they subscribe. This view of religion
is significantly different from that which sees re-
ligion as a system of belief by which humans
relate themselves to the universe in which they
find themselves. This latter view of religion is so
broad that under its rubric there have been some
who have claimed science as a religion. Indeed,
in our own time, science has become for many
the new idolatry.

While the belief in spirits may be said to form
the essence of the religious state, the religious
state itself everywhere takes the form of emotion-
ally felt relatedness to forces and powers outside
oneself, forces and powers that largely control us,
and which to some extent we can influence. Such

a description of religion defines its character both
(continued on next page)

February 1987 - 7

 




 

 

\

REPORTS/COMMENTS: PRO, CON, ETC.

for the individual and society. It refers to the bond
that binds the individual to the universe which
he inhabits, and thus to everything in it, to things,
and animals, and plants, and waters, the air, as
well as to persons, spirits, and transcendent val-
ues.

It is an interesting reflection that this yearning
to relate oneself to the mysterious forces of the
universe, to reveal and to bring into harmonic
order something of its meaning, is much the same
kind of striving to which we give the name “sci-
ence.” It is principally in the means, the methods,
by which these strivings are realized that the dif-
ferences between science and religion are pro-
duced.

The method of religion is private acquiescence
in the public solution of the mystery, whereas
science is characterized by public acquiescence
in the private solution of the mystery. Religion is
a social communion in which the individual joins;
science is essentially the continuous creation by
individuals who have privately pursued their dis-
coveries, but who have submitted them to the
judgment of their peers. The method of religion
is faith; the method of science is doubt. Faith is
certainty without proof, science is proof without
certainty, while chance is just another name for
complexity. Religion as experience is subjective;
science as experience is objective, or at least makes
the attempt to be so. Religion is revelatory, sci-
ence is demonstrative. But when all this has been
said, even at those points of contact and differ-
ence the resemblances between religion and sci-
ence are substantial. The substantiality of the

differences, however, must not be underesti-
mated.

But however substantial the differences may
be, they do not and should not constitute a barrier
to communication between the religious and the
scientist. In the larger context within which we
live and have our being, the scientist must, like
the religious, never slight the spiritual, the hu-
mane, requirements of human work and conduct.
For both the religious and the scientist there can
be no handwashing indifference to the conse-
quences of what we, as human beings, believe
and do.

By “spiritual” I mean here not what it is cuS-
tomarily taken to mean, in the religious sense, but
something much more than that, namely, the
combination of qualities, best resumed in the word
“love,” that makes up the person’s attitudes of
mind toward himself and to the world about him.
It is the “spirit” of the person, something people
have or do not have, whether or not they sub-
scribe to any religious system. It is a spirit which
is characterized by its relatedness to an involve-
ment in the world in which we live, a spirit which
confers benefits in a creatively enlarging manner
upon whatever we possibly can. In this sense

8 - February 1987

6 ° February 1:701

 

science provides the necessity of religion. It is
the sense in which Thomas Paine spoke when he
said, “The world is my country. To do good is my
religion." And what is goodness? It is to live as if
to live and love were one. But what is love? It is
to confer survival benefits in a creatively enlarg-
ing manner upon others. upon all living things,
with the possible exception of liver flukes, lo-
custs, and lice.

It is our relatedness to all living things, our
kinship with the whole of animated nature, the
required reemphasis in the light especially of our
most recently acquired knowledge concerning that
relatedness. It is a knowledge which stands in
stark contrast to that kind of unrelatedness of
which The First Book of Moses. (.‘olled Genesis,
speaks. There we are told: “And (iod said, Let us
make man in our own image. after our likeness:
and let them have dominion over the fish of the
sea, and over the fowl of the air. and over the
cattle, and over all the earth. and over every
creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.”4
And two paragraphs following. as if to rub the
message in: “And God blessed them. and God
said unto them, Be fruitful. and multiply, and
replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have do-
minion over the fish of the sea. and over the fowl
of the air, and over every living thing that moveth
upon the earth.“ And at an accelerating rate man
has been doing precisely that ever since. Those
two passages, following upon one another, in the
very first chapter of Genesis. as if to emphasize
the lesson, served no doubt to reinforce views
that had been held long before those baleful words
came to be set down. To this day treatment of
animals throughout the Middle East remains dis-
mal, in spite of the text in the Koran which says,
“There is no beast on earth nor fowl that flieth,
but the same are a people like unto you, and to
God they shall return.”

Nor does any attention seem to have been paid
to the injunction in The Book of Job, “Ask now
the beasts and they shall teach thee: and the fowlS
of the air, and they shall teach thee: Or speak to
the earth, and it shall teach thee and the fishes of
the sea shall declare unto thee. Who knoweth not
that in all these that the hand of the Lord hath
Wrought this? In whose hand is the soul of ever}I
living thing, and the breath of all mankind.”6

The Jobian injunction is eccentric; it has noth-
ing to do with the enjoinders of Genesis, where
it is clearly stated that the earth and everything
on it was created for the benefit of man, and to
serve his purposes excluSively. As Lynn White
has said, “We continue to live today as we have
lived for some 1700 years, very largely in a con-
text of Christian axioms.”7 White went on to point
out that Christianity, in contrast to ancient pagan—
lsm and Asia’s religions, not only established a
dualism of man and nature but also insisted that

The AV

 




 

 

 

 

REPORTS/COMMENTS: PRO, CON, ETC.

it is God’s will that man exploit nature for his
proper ends. And I think it clear that what Chris-
tianity did by destroying pagan animism was to
make it possible for man to exploit nature with a
callousness and indifference that has increased
at a devastating rate to the present day.

With the exception of that revolutionary char-
acter, St. Francis of Assisi, in the early 13th cen-
tury, who pleaded the virtue of humility not merely

. for the individuality of living creatures, but also
for the whole community of man, there have been
few religious who have followed his example.8
St. Francis tried to put an end to man’s idea of
himself as dominant over all other creatures, and
to persuade men to see themselves as part of the
great community of all living things. But in this
he was opposed by his fellow churchmen. The
great General of the Franciscan order, St.
Bonaventura, attempted to suppress the early ac-
count of Franciscanism.9

But although for a time St. Francis was alone,
voices began to make themselves increasingly
heard, though for the most part to little or no
effect, voices which claimed justice, courtesy, and
rights for animals. Such notions were difficult to
take seriously in the light of Cartesian and similar
views which held animals to be devoid of con-
sciousness and feeling, mere automata, animated
machines.10 A view to which, with appropriate
irony, Voltaire replied that apparently God “had
given the animals organs of feeling to the end that
they might not feel.”

The striking thing, as one surveys the history
of the subject, from the 16th to the end of the
19th century, is the consistently cogent character
of the arguments in favour of animal rights, and
the high quality of the criticism aimed against
the arguments of those who took the opposite
view.11 Such of that history as I have read has
made it quite clear to me why the belief that
animals are nothing but animated automata with-
out feeling was so easily and widely accepted,
and where, indeed, it still prevails as an article
of faith.

It is interesting and, I think, illuminating to
find that the belief in animals as animated auto-
mata occurs largely among the unenlightened of
so-called civilized societies. To my knowledge it
is never encountered among the peoples the “civ-
ilized” call “primitive,” such people as the gath-
erer-hunters, the Australian aborigines, the Khoi
San [Bushmenj of the Kalahari Desert, the pyg-
mies of the Ituri Forest of Zaire, The Toda of
Southern India, the Hadza of Tanzania, the Bir-
hor of Southern India, the Punan of Borneo, the
Tasaday of Mindanao, the Eskimos, and others.12
The aboriginal peoples of the Americas, for whom

The AV

 

we have good evidence, like the gatherer-hunters
to whom I have referred, had the greatest rever-
ence for their animal friends and relatives on this
earth.13

Perhaps the best brief statement on the relation
of humans to animals in indigenous societies is
that made by Sumner and Keller in their magnif-
icent four-volume The Science of Society. “One
of the marked differences,” they write, “between
primitive men and civilized lies in the divergence
of their attitudes in this respect. To understand
the way the savage looks at beasts, the civilized
man must set aside all sense of superiority which
has been conferred upon him through the success
of his cultural adjustments. He thinks he has con-
quered the animal kingdom and looks upon its
members as ‘lower’ and of no significance as com—
pared with himself. Not so the savage, who is as
yet poorly equipped with cultural equipment. He
does not feel himself to be the ‘lord’ of creation;
to him the animals have enviable superiorities
which he cannot rival. They can outfight him,
outrun him, outclimb him; they have self-pre-
servative instincts, not to mention fighting weap-
ons, which arouse his respect and envy. He sees
no such impassable cleft between them and him-
self as the more sophisticated have discovered.
Consider the beliefs about souls in animal-form
and animal reincarnation, recently reviewed.
Animals are redoubtable competitors in the strug-
gle for life and receive the esteem due such.”14

Accurate as that statement is there are, how-
ever, many other qualities attributed to animals
by indigenous peoples which make it quite nat-
ural for them to respect and to love them. The
mythologies of these peoples generally relate them
biologically to themselves, as being a part of na-
ture, where no one form is considered superior
to the other or superior to nature —unlike those
of us in the West who think of ourselves not as a
part of nature, but as superior to it, and where we
consider all other forms as “inferior” to our-
selves. We have even introduced our prejudices
into the classification of animals as “higher”; and
“lower.” Those who most closely resemble our-
selves are, of course, the “higher”; those who fail
to do so are, of course, the “lower.”

(To be continued next issue)
Animals’ Defender

*Reference citations available from AA-VS

(Ed. Note: This paper by Ashley Montagu, author of
The Elephant Man, was the keynote address at the
International Conference on Religious Perspectives
on the Use of Animals in Science. It was presented
by Professor Sidney Gendin of Eastern Michigan
University in the absence of Professor Montagu due
to illness.)

00

February 1987 - 9

 




 

 

MORE BOGUS
RESEARCH

Dr. Robert Slutsky, erstwhile
cardiologist at the University of
California at San Diego, has been
accused of producing 13 fraud-
ulent research papers and 55
“whose authenticity cannot be
proved.” The Associated Press
article that appeared in the New
York Times did not specify the
nature of Dr. Slutsky’s research
except that at least some of it in-
volved heart drugs. If animals
were being used, one can’t help
but wonder if Dr. Slutsky got the
idea that the data had little ap-
plication for human patients
anyway, so why not get the job
done more efficiently by creating
imaginary data to attain the de-
sired results.

Ci Vi tas
I

FAT RATS

Biochemical research on labo-
ratory rats and some humans has
indicated that the body monitors
and regulates its calorie and en-
ergy balance through a complex
chemical network, according to
Dr. Richard Wurtman of the
Massachusetts Institute of Tech—
nology.

What the rat has not been able
to show researchers is the psy-
chological factors that may, in
some cases, trigger excessive eat-
ing and weight gain. Nor do the
rats offer clues to how the envi-
ronment in which humans live
can cause obesity.

The Philadelphia Inquirer
I

BLOOD TRAN SF USION

The first injection into the
bloodstream of an animal was
made in 1657, and the first ani-
mal experiments on blood trans-
fusion were made in 1665.
Following this, many research—
ers transfused blood from ani-
mals into humans; many of the
recipients died, and blood trans-
fusion in man was abandoned.
Research into the nature of blood
continued, mainly using test tube
methods; it was found that ad-

10 - February 1987

GOLEANINGS

 

dition of certain salts could pre—
vent clotting and that blood took
up oxygen.

Animal experiments carried
out in the 19th century produced
no information of value, for they
failed to reveal that people would
often die when receiving blood
from a human donor. Blood
transfusion did not become safe
until the human blood groups
were discovered at the beginning
of this century; this discovery was
made by studying human blood
in the test tube. Then in 1914
clinical researchers found that
blood clotting during transfu-
sion could be prevented by the
addition of sodium nitrate; ani-
mal research in the 19th century
had also shown this to be unsafe.
This new discovery laid the
foundation for the modern blood
bank. All of the important dis—
coveries in blood transfusion were
made clinically or by in-vitro
[non-animal] techniques. Reli-
ance on vivisection delayed the
introduction of blood transfu-
sion by over 200 years.

The Campaigner 8* Animals’
Defender
I

A COMPROMISE
SITUATION

The Racine County (Wiscon—
sin) Board opted for negotiation
rather than confrontation in op-
posing the county humane soci-
ety’s practice of selling animals
for medical research.

By a 21-8 vote, the board ex-
pressed its opposition to the an-
imal sales, but stopped short of
withholding funding from the
humane society.

Instead, the board directed its
personnel and community ser-
vices committee to negotiate an
end to the sales with the society
and report back by May 1987.

The board also decided to ap-
point a supervisor as a voting
member of the humane society’s
board.

After nearly two hours of dis-
cussion and with about 50 peo-

 

ple in attendance, the executive
committee narrowly decided to
recommend that the board re-
frain from withholding funds
from the humane society.

But the amendment calling for
negotiations, introduced by Su-
pervisor Hartwell Smiley, rep-
resented a compromise that
seemed to satisfy both sides of
the charged debate.

[ourn al Times
I

HOW TO SAVE TIME
READING THE NEWS

The following excerpt from an
article by Jeff Greenfield, a New
York-based columnist, origi-
nated on the Op-ed page of the
Philadelphia Inquirer, January
8, 1987. As a whole it was writ-
ten “tongue-in-cheek,” however,
we believe it contains more than
a grain of truth:

Since life is too short any-
way, there can be no greater
service than to save time for
a busy person such as your-
self.

As my New Year’s gift to
you, I’m about to save you
hundreds of person-hours in
the time it takes to read this
column. How? By warning
you away from bushel bas-
kets of news stories that seem
crucially significant, but that
turn out to have no utility
whatsoever.

Ready? Here goes:

Ignore all new health
warnings issued by promi—
nent scientists. The entire
medical-scientific establish-
ment is now dominated by
ambitious people whose sole
desire is to be booked on
morning television talk shows.

To accomplish this, doc-
tors and research scientists
regularly publish articles in
the New England Journal of
Medicine, warning that the
public is in imminent danger
of mass extinction from
graphite pencils, or sun vi-
sors, or foot massage, or tap-
ioca pudding.

I

The AV




MORE

 

‘N EOMORTS’

Medical examiners pronounce
them dead. But still they are
rushed into a special hospital op-
erating room. Doctors hook them
up to artificial life-support sys-
tems, and their hearts and lungs
are working again.

But they are not alive. They
are brain—dead. Only their bodies
are functioning.

These “living” dead, called
neomorts, can exist for up to two
weeks while researchers use them
to test new medical procedures
and to store organs for transplan-
tation.

Neomorts, however, must have
died recently, and their bodies
must be relatively undamaged
and disease-free, to be of any use.

“It’s still a dead body; it’s just
in a different state,” said Ray
Moseley, director of the Univer-
sity of Florida’s Medical Hu—
manities Program, which teaches
ethics to medical students. “It’s
no different than giving a body
to science.”

Using functioning bodies of
brain-dead people was only a
dream 10 years ago. Today it is a
. reality, and experts expect that
within a decade, many hospitals
will set up wards to house neo-
morts and begin using them for
scientific research.

“Knowing what the attitude is
toward animal research, I can’t
imagine it as a viable alterna-
tive,” said Lynn Romrell, execu-
tive director of Florida’s
Anatomical Board. “If people are
offended by animal research, they
will be offended by this if not
more.”

The Washington Post
I

CLONING HUMAN SKIN

A Boulder, Colorado biotech-
nology company apparently has
become the first in the country
to successfully commercialize the
cloning of human skin.

Clonetics Corp., a small, pri-
vately held company, developed
a patented process for cloning
human skin cells, and is now

The AV

 

GLEANINGS

 

shipping its product — human
skin — to a variety of clients
around the country, said com-
pany President Suzan Garner.

The company’s client list in-
cludes medical researchers in the
field of dermatology as well as
pharmaceutical and cosmetics
firms that want to test how skin
reacts to new substances, she said.

The cloned skin cells give re—
searchers a safe way to test how
substances such as new drugs af—
fect skin, Garner explained.

Many such tests currently are
performed using either human
cancer cells or animal skin cells,
which do not always yield re-
sults identical with that of hu-
man skin cells. Consequently, the
cloned cells allow researchers to
assess how new substances af-
fect human skin with a greater
degree of accuracy, Garner said.

The Washington Post
I

EPILEPSY RESEARCH

One of the most frustrating as-
pects of research in epilepsy has
been the search for a common
mechanism or brain abnormality
that initiates seizures. Given the
wide variety of seizures, it is not
surprising that finding a com-
mon denominator has remained
an elusive goal. It may turn out
that no such common factor ex-
ists, but rather that different kinds
of seizures are triggered in differ-
ent ways. But irrespective of their
diversity, seizures are similar in
one critical aspect—during a sei-
zure neurons in the brain fire to-
gether in unusual synchrony.

Researchers generally agree that
experimental models of seizures
provide useful information about
epilepsy, but they also caution
against over-interpreting how an
experimental model may relate
to human epilepsy. Two current
models are “kindling” in whole
animals, which involves induc-
ing seizures with low-intensity
electrical stimuli given over a pe-
riod of days, and generating sei-
zure-like discharges in slices of

brain tissue maintained in Vitro.

But experimental models of
epilepsy are limited in many re-
spects and may resemble only
certain aspects of the human dis-
order. For example, rats are much
easier to kindle than animals
higher on the evolutionary scale,
such as rhesus monkeys. This
leads some researchers to ques-
tion the validity of kindling as a
model of human epilepsy.

Karen Gale of Georgetown
University School of Medicine
does not know if an area analo-
gous to the rat (brain) area tem-
pestus exists in the human brain,
nor does she know why this area
is so epileptogenic in rats.

Science
(Ed. Note: The totality of this arti-
cle, “Debate About Epilepsy: What
Initiates Seizures?” is brilliant in
execution. The above excerpts are
cited because the author, Deborah
M. Barnes, does not hesitate to
caution against extrapolating data
from animal models (in this case
the lab rat) to people. It is obvious
that what has been learned from
rats is of no help to human epilep-
tics whatsoever.)

NOW IT’S GOATS

Scientists said they have de-
veloped a genetically engineered
prototype vaccine that showed
promising results against the
AIDS virus in test-tube studies.

Repligen Corp. developed the
vaccine with help from research—
ers at Malvern, Pa.-based Cen-
tocor Inc., Duke University
Medical School and the National
Cancer Institute. The biotech-
nology concern said the vaccine,
injected into goats, generated an-
tibodies in the animals that
“neutralized” the AIDS virus in
test—tube experiments.

Repligen cautioned, however,
that its results don’t necessarily
mean that the vaccine will work
in humans. Moreover, develop-
ing a human vaccine is expected
to take years.

The Wall Street [ournal

February 1987 ~ 11

 




 

 

 

 

MY BELOVED FRIEND, NOBLE

I will never forget the horror
of that moment.

As I turned, I saw my be-
loved dog, Noble, frozen in
terror, directly in the path of a
speeding train. The earth
shook and the heavens seemed
to roar.

My beloved friend, Noble,
was about to die.

The following instant had
the quality of eternity. Time
stopped; the roar hushed; the
train appeared frozen in still-
ness, while the ground seemed
to fall away beneath our feet.
All that remained was myself
and my dog. Noble and I had
shared life with love and had
based our relationship on mu-
tual respect.

The love and devotion that
is shared by two beings in life
is too fine an expression to be
betrayed by death. This truth
is pristine and absolute. Such
devotion is not the sole prov-
ince of the human commu-
nity. It transcends the
boundaries of species and
heralds the kinship of all life.

In that eternal instant just
before death, I saw that love
with awesome profundity and
crystal clarity in Noble’s eyes.
As new dimensions of devo-
tion opened within us, I found
myself flying through the air,
grabbing Noble by the chest
and flipping him over back-
ward out of the path of im-
minent death. I felt his surprise
that his devoted friend would
handle him so roughly. I felt

by Cole McFarland

   

 

 

my elation that I had saved
my friend. Then. . .

An explosion in agony. Time
resumes its normal flow. The
train roars. It hits me; runs me
over; and cuts off my leg.

The train continued on its
way while I lay crushed in the
dirt. Only Noble’s licking of
my face kept me conscious for
the next few minutes.

Lifting myself up on one el—
bow, I saw the lower half of
my leg, completely severed
except for a thin thread of flesh
which served as a pendulum
for my calf and foot, now
swaying back and forth.

Noble knew something was
terribly wrong and desper-
ately wanted to help, but just
didn’t know what to do. Then
I realized, if I were to die, No—
ble would be lost. I kept my-
self from bleeding to death by
gripping what was left of my
leg and resolved to endure un-
til help would come to watch
over my dog.

I write these words twenty-
six months later. My beloved
Noble sits beside me patiently
awaiting our next endeavor.
Loving and trusting, he is my
devoted friend. Such is the
quality of the human/com-
panion animal bond.

THE CALLING

I believe that I am alive to-
day, not by accident, but by
Providence; by design and for
a purpose. The severity of my

 

injury was my calling made
manifest; but while my cir-
cumstances are unique, my
commitment to animal pro-
tection is quite common.

Following the news re-
leases about the incident, I re-
ceived hundreds and hundreds
of letters and telephone calls
from people across the nation
and throughout the free world
expressing empathy for my
motives and support for my
actions. They say that their
companion animals are com-
pletely integrated, loving, giv-
ing members of their family.
They say they would have
done exactly the same thing.

We are at the dawning of a
new age of animal activism.
And, it is time for Americans
everywhere to acknowledge
publically what they know in—
tuitively. It is time for private
conviction to become politi-
cal action.

We, as a society, cannot
honor love, loyalty and family
while we condone atrocities
to be inflicted on our family
members.

If we do, we betray the val-
ues we purport to serve and
the family we purport to love.
We sell our souls to pseudo-
science and forfeit the right to
claim our own humanity.

Our companion animals
have a right to our protection
and we have a duty to protect
them.

 

 

 

12 - February 1987

The AV

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I’VE BEEN THINKING about
more small incidents that hap-
pened while I was busy at some-
thing else, or on my way
somewhere.

One autumn evening I walked
down a woodland path after sun-
set. Leafless trees made silhou-
ettes against the glowing sky. At
the base of a tall stub some voles
were squeaking, and I stopped to
listen. Something moved on top
of the stub and there was a wea-
sel, also listening. His forefeet
gripped the top of the stub and
his hind feet held onto the sides.
A weasel looks like a red squirrel
except for his wider face and
longer body. Just how much
longer I found out when his hind
feet began to slip and he stretched
himself farther and farther down
the stub. As he and I continued
to watch each other, he renewed
his grip occasionally, and each
time let his feet slide until his
body assumed almost snakelike
proportions.

The voles kept up faint squeaks
and rustlings in dry leaves, while
the weasel had eyes only for me.
Leaving him there, I walked on.
When I came back an hour later
he was gone.

Walking along the path to
Squirrel Haven one summer day,
I heard a slight movement to my
right. A raccoon had been just
about to cross my path. She
stopped short. Something dan—
gled from her mouth, and I found
she held a baby raccoon. Young
raccoons are called kittens, and
she carried him like a cat carries
kittens—by the scruff of the neck.
No doubt the den had become
unsafe for some reason, and she
was moving her brood to another
location, one by one.

At Otter Dam, deep in the
woods, there’s a blind above the
stream. Each morning year ’round
except when the stream is fro—
zen, I throw whole corn kernels
into the water and when there’s
time I climb into the blind and
wait for wood ducks. My pri-
mary purpose is to see these col-
orful ducks as they dive for corn,
play in the water and preen

The AV

 

E
‘TEEN
WINDOW

. . . An Opening On The Natural
World Around Us

by

 

Hope Sawyer Buyukmihci

 

 

MORE
GLIMPSES
OF
LIFE

 

 

(g .. 1,
W‘m/(s’dlllﬂlh

themselves on half-submerged
logs.

One morning before the sun
had risen, a horned owl flew si—
lently up the stream and alighted
on the limb of a tall cedar oppo-
site me. He stayed there while
the dawn grew brighter, reveal-
ing the markings on his brown
feathers and the light in his great
yellow eyes.

Another morning, after the sun
had risen, a kingfisher came rat-
tling his way downstream. He
perched on a branch close beside
the blind and began to preen.
With meticulous care he drew his
feathers through his beak, one at
a time, then shook himself vig-
orously to settle them in place.

When he was sufficiently
groomed, and dried in the sun,
he still had that disheveled look
that kingfishers have because
their topknot is rough and un-
even. Kingfishers and blue her-
ons often visit Otter Dam, where
the water abounds in fish.

Another fish eater is the river
otter. Early one morning I saw a
family of otters come down the
stream, glide over the dam and
begin to cavort in the water be-
low. The mother otter caught a
fish and took it up on a cedar
root. One of the half-grown cubs
followed her up and begged for a
piece, which she denied him by
turning away whenever he
climbed near her face. While the
cub continued to annoy his
mother, two other cubs played
near their father, who was swim-
ming back and forth in the pool.

When the father otter chanced
to come near the blind he be-
came aware of me. (Otters have
a fantastic sense of smell.) He
raised his head and looked up
intently, snuffling in curiosity. He
didn’t snort, as he would have if
fully alarmed, but he must have
given a signal. The mother otter
slid off the root with a piece of
fish in her mouth, the cubs joined
her, and they hurried away
downstream, while the father
brought up the rear.

Who knows what’s happening
at Otter Dam, and all those other
places, during the many hours
when I’m not there to watch!

I I

 

NOTE: Have you been doing
some thinking lately? If it is about
animals, what you’ve seen that
disturbs or delights you, write a
letter to this column. Here’s a
chance to express your deepest
feelings, your most profound
thoughts. Ifyou are 12-18years of
age, we would like to hear what
you think about animals. We may
publish what you say (unless you
specificallyrequest that we do not).
Sorry, but we cannot answer each
letter person ally.

Address: OUR FELLOW ANI-
MALS, AV Magazine, Suite 204
Noble Plaza, 801 Old York Road,
Ienkintown, PA 19046-1685.

February 1.987 - 13

 

 




 

 

 

by Liam; Bmp‘hy; PM?

THE
GENTLE APPROACH

We are living in hard times, to judge from the
observations of psychologists and sociologists on
the thinking and behavior of the young. We. are
witnessing what Dr. Alice Heim of Cambrldge
University calls “a desensitization process.” The
young wish to be seen as tough rather than tender
or gentle, as hard and unfeeling rather than sen-
sitive or caring, as ruthless rather than gentle. It
is considered a desirable trait among them to be
able to watch the suffering of others, animals in-
cluded, without pity or compassion. They have
been conditioned to be hard, for now, as never
before in human history, the young are exposed
to exhibitions of cruelty in the media, and never
before has it been possible to reach such a world-
wide audience of young uncritical and impres-
sionable minds and hearts. The young have always
been by nature hero-worshippers. In former times
they looked up to the men who served mankind
best — the chivalrous knight with his code of
defense of the weak; the saint, the artist, the ex-
plorer. Mark Twain’s ridicule destroyed these
models. In their place our children were given
killers like Buffalo Bill Cody, who during the
18605 killed almost 4,300 bison in the space of
seventeen months. More recently the James Bond
type, amoral and utterly ruthless, claims the ad-
miration of the young. Not surprisingly, it has
become noticeably easier to find recruits for viv-
isection among the young, since so many have
been emptied of pity already. This climate of cal-
lousness is proving an ideal atmosphere in which
to cultivate the seeds of sadism in perverse na-
tures who find animal laboratories as congenial
as did the exterminators in concentration camps.

The media in fostering the cult of callousness
have created what Nobel prize winner and med-
ical doctor of world fame, Dr. Alexis Carrel, called
“the brutal materialism of our modern scientific
age which crushes the affective, the gentle, the
weak, the lonely, those who love beauty, who
look for other things than money” (Man the Un-
known). Ernest Hemingway was a formidable
promoter of the cult. He was a killer of outstand-
ing versatility, and a folk hero of the young. His
biographer, Charles Baker, said his life was “a
long holocaust of animals, birds, fishes in various
seas and continents (only the whale got away).
He was the scourge of everything with four feet,
two wings or dorsal fin.” His influence was all
the more pernicious because he was a best-selling
novelist, with the romantic aura of the bull-fighter.
His dry, almost monosyllabic prose was culti-
vated to indicate his rejection of grace, beauty,
and, above all, sentiment. He had this to say in A
Farewell to Arms: “If peOple bring so much cour-

 

14 - February 1987

age to this world, the world has to kill them, to
break them, so it kills them . . . Those that will
not break it kills. It kills the very good, and the
very gentle, and the very brave impartially.”
Hemingway himself, very much a man of thls
world, helped kill many of the gentle and brave
who fought the ruthless forces of Communism in
Spain.

Poets, being themselves gentle by nature, have
often observed how the gentle have become the
natural prey of the world’s predators and are often
represented, like those in the anti-vivisection
campaign, as feeble, inadequate to life, even as
the enemies of a society which tacitly accepts
“the survival of the fittest” as the basic principle
of progress. It is also tacitly understood that the
“fittest” are the aggressive, the insensitive and
callous. But, like animal defenders everywhere,
the gentle have greater courage than hunters or
toreadors. They are the brave minority referred
to by Walter de la Mare:

“Passionate, sorrowful hearts, the wise, the true

and the gentle, Minds that outface all fear, defy

despair, remain faithful, Endure in silence, hope
on, assured in selfless courage . . . ’

A century ago the English-speaking world,
England especially, regarded the gentleman as the
finest product of Christian civilization and by the
gentleman was meant, as Newman explained in
a famous essay, one who never inflicts pain. It
means more than that, as he later implied: it means
one who is ready to defend the defenseless and
weak, to give voice to the protests of the inarti-
culate, to resist the encroachments of “the cruel
sons of Cain.” But how did we arrive at what
Clare Booth Luce called “this cruel century” with
its appalling toll of pain and torture inflicted on
humans and animals? Where did men’s calcula—
tions go so terribly wrong from the bright and
alluring optimism of Tennyson who claimed to
foresee the peace and light which science was to
bestow on the world? , .

Westacott gives the following declaration of1n-
dependence from pity, compiled by several v1v1—
sectors, to represent their code. “Vivisection or
experimentation upon living creatures must be
looked upon simply as a matter of studying the
phenomenon of life. With morality it has nothlﬂg
to do. It should be subject neither to critic15m nor
restriction of any kind. It may be used to any
extent desired by any experimenter (no matter
what degree of prolonged pain it may involve) for
demonstration before students of the statements
contained in their textbooks, and as an and to
memory; for confirmation of theories; for original
research; or for any conceivable purpose of. In-
vestigation into vital phenomena. We consider
that sentiment has no place in the physi01081call
laboratory: that animals have no rights that man
is called upon to respect; that science cannot be
cruel when her sole purpose is to investigate 01‘
administer. And, finally, while we claim many
discoveries of value to have been due to experl-

The AV

 




 

 

CONSERVATION, ANIMAL RIGHTS AND HUMAN SURVIVAL:
THE ESSENTIAL CONNECTION

by Dr. Michael W. Fox

Scientiﬁc Director
The Humane Society of the United States

Conservationists say that it is enlightened self-inter-
est to “think globally and act locally” because out of
ignorance, indifference, greed and dire need, the peo-
ples of the world are destroying the fragile planetary
ecology. Irresponsible local actions—such as destroy-
ing a forest, spraying pesticides or dispersing industrial
pollutants—cause harm locally. And like a cancer they
can spread globally, often escalating the rate of plane-
tary destruction because they summate with irrespon-
sible actions in other locales, nationally and
internationally. These actions, which may provide short-
term profits and other temporary benefits — such as
jobs, more goods, services ——ultimately contribute to
human sickness (cancer, birth defects] and even pov-
erty and famine, and, as the environment is polluted
and destroyed, to the extinction of wildlife. The lesson
here is that, since all things are interconnected and
interdependent, when we harm the environment we
also harm ourselves.

The humanitarian-animal protectionist says that it is
enlightened self-interest to treat other animals as we
would have them treat us, and that we should give
animals equal and fair consideration since they are part
of the same creation and ecological community as we
humans are. So it is wrong to exclude them from our
moral community and the scope of our ethical con-

cern. The suffering of “factory” farmed animals and of.

wildlife on the verge of extinction is a symptom of
human ignorance, insensitivity, indifference, greed and
dire need. The suffering of laboratory animals is un-
justified because they cannot help us find preventives
for the diseases we bring upon ourselves through irre-
sponsible acts such as environmental pollution, which
contaminates the food we eat, the water we drink and

 

the air we breathe. Nor can laboratory animals help us
find cures for the collective state of mind, which is a
disease in itself, that abuses its power of dominion by
poisoning the planet and our own bodies and babies
in the process. _

We have failed to respect our Mother Earth and our
animal kin, as we have failed to realize the brotherhood
and sisterhood of all humanity. And until we do, we
will have neither world peace nor peace of mind. We
will become more diseased and cause or experience
even more planetary suffering and needless destruc-
tion of all that is sacred and beautiful, until we give
each other and non-human animals equal and fair con-
sideration, because we recognize the kinship of suffer-
ing of all sentient life, and, until we treat the environment
with reverence because we recognize Nature as our
Mother-provider not as a resource to be raped and
plundered. And, until we see the earth and the rocks
as part of us, of our flesh and bones, and treat all of
creation—the animate and the inanimate, the sentient
and the pre—sentient—with the wisdom (or sapience)
of an enlightened humanity, we will not be worthy of
the title Homo sapiens. We have yet to realize the
homogeneous origin and unity of all life which, by
virtue of our power of dominion, is only ours as a
sacred trust. We are slow to learn that we do harm to
ourselves when we build a society, an economy, and
agriculture and other industries that ignore our sacred
connections with N ature—what conservationists refer
to as the laws of ecology and which humanitarians
recognize as the bonds of empathy and compassion
from which the boundless ethic of reverence for all life
arises spontaneously. Respect for these connections is
the hallmark of a truly civilized and enlightened soci-
ety that recognizes that respect for the environment is
the eleventh commandment and respect for all living
things the supreme ethic of responsible and creative
planetary stewardship. I I

 

 

 

. ftliﬁzg

ments on animals, yet even this we regard as of
secondary importance to the freedom of unlim-
ited research and the independence of science
from all restrictions and restraints” (A Century
of Vivisection and Anti-Vivisection). Seldom
has voice of uninhibited cruelty been raised with
such arrogant candor. We are reminded of an-
other phrase of Newman: “Quarry the granite rocks
with razors or moor the vessel with a thread of
silk; then may you hope withsuch keen and deli-
cate instruments as human knowledge and hu-
man reason to contend against those giants, the
passion and the pride of man.”

But we “Humaniacs,” who claim to be on the
side of life, consider the gentle approach to its
problems, such as cruelty, as of supreme impor-
tance. Robert Louis Stevenson even asserted that
“gentleness and cheerfulness came before all
morality.” Perhaps all morality is already con—
tained in them. Our masters the Greeks under-
stood the power of gentleness, as we see in Aesop’s
fable of the duel between the wild West wind and
the sun to make a traveler divest himself of his
cloak. The harder the wind blew, the more he

The AV

 

tightened it around him. Then the sun entered
the contest. It increased its warmth with gentle
gradualness, so the man finally took off his cloak.
The gentle may sometimes ask in Shakespeare’s
phrase, how gentleness, “whose action is no
stronger than a flower” can withstand the raging
winds of a ruthless world. Paul Bloomfields has
warned in his Culture and Destiny that the ruth-
less and cruel always want to bend life to their
harsh will, and take whatever advantage they can
from the abdication of the sensitive and “squeam-
ish.” If we abdicate before the callous we leave
defenseless creatures at their mercy. But we should
never let righteous indignation express itself in
violence like some animal protection groups in
England who destroy property and even dese-
crate the graves of former huntsmen. It may be
that in the end the silken thread of gentleness
will be like the thread in the Greek fable that
guided Theseus out of the labyrinth. And is not
the whole Vivisection structure, with its innu-
merable blind alleys and elaborate devices of de-
ception, remarkably like a labyrinth? I I

February 1987 ° 15

J l

 




 

 

 

A FURTHER TRIBUTE TO
COLONEL WILLIAM R. SANDIF ER,
LATE OF EVERGREEN, COLORADO

AND FORT LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA

 

Colonel Sandifer had many fine qualities, not
the least his compassion for human beings and
animals. As a member of the Corps of Engineers
he was revered by his fellow workers and friends
as a true officer and gentleman. He is keenly missed
by all who knew him and were inspired by him.

LETTERS TO AND FROM
The Issue: Vivisection

To: Rev. Donald S. Nesti, C.S. Sp
President
Duquesne University

Dear Father Nesti:

May I respectfully submit for your considera-
tion my feeling relative to one significant aspect
of Catholic education that many of us are either
ignorant of or indifferent to; namely, animal ex-
perimentation or vivisection, ostensibly in the
interest of science and the questionable enhance-
ment of human health.

I cannot reconcile myself to the horrible suffer-
ing incident to the pseudo educational benefits
of vivisection or the savage experimentation of
animals in our high schools and college biology
classes, including Catholic institutions of higher
learning. It was with a deep feeling of sadness
and disappointment when I recently read, in
the current issue of the Duquesne University
Record, that this pernicious evil prevails even
at my Alma Mater.

There is no need for animal experimentation
because there are currently available far more sci-
entific procedures, such as the use of tissue cul-
tures, unicellular systems, mathematical systems,
computerized models, clinical and epidemiolog-
ical methods, all of which are scientific and tech-
nologically feasible.

Furthermore, we are advised to accept the fact

16 - February 1987

orcEs

 

 

that ALL life has intrinsic value. Does this ad-
monition extend to animal life? If so, I frequently
wonder where do the 48 millions of American
Catholics stand in respect to this premise. Indeed,
is not the sound of their collective voice so weak
as to be ineffective in an effort to interdict the
generous grants that flow from Federal and State
bureaucracies to tormentors of defenseless ani-
mals for the purpose of performing atrocious,
needless, repetitive experiments under the ban-
ner of scientific research?

The whimpering creatures who have lost hope
and the awesome shrills of insufferable anguish
from these helpless, innocent victims of vivisec-
tion cry out for man to spare them from the un-
speakable, indescribable horrors of the nation’s
laboratories. Each year approximately 15 million
of God’s creatures are sacrificed at the hands of
ruthless experimenters whose ego and avarice
blind them to the universal standards of compas-
sion and the majesty and beauty of God’s cre-
ation.

In God’s name why, as the Reverend Robert A.
Russell addressed the problem many years ago,
do 600 million Christians in the world permit
this universal crime of vivisection to perpetuate
itself and to brazenly pursue its hideous objec-
tives and spread its evil influence without so much
as a challenge from the Christian community in
general or the Catholic church in particular?

In this respect, I pray and solicit the help of an
all-merciful God to arrest the hand of those who
torment His innocent creatures and to grant to all
mankind the wisdom to find, the vision to see,
and the courage to invoke in the spirit of Saint
Francis a Christian concern for all of God’s living
creatures, in the hope that man will terminate
this awesome slaughter so that he may, in turn,
share in the benediction of God’s infinite mercy,
for the sake of His son, Jesus Christ our Lord.

Respectfully yours,
Col. Richard I. McDevitt, IF-

Dear Mr. McDevitt:

I thank you for your recent letter, wherein you
have expressed your concerns in regards to ani-
mal experimentation at Duquesne University. It
is with a deep sense of appreciation and sincere
gratitude that I acknowledge your sensitivity to-
wards animal welfare. In the spirit of true cath—
olic tradition Duquesne University has always
upheld the principle that “all life, human or an—
imal, has intrinsic value.” As President of this
catholic University, I have taken every step to
ensure that animals are not subject to suffering

The AV

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and wasteful experimentatio . is humans we are
responsible for the safeguard of health and well-
being of animals. We need some animal research
to understand the disease process in animals so
that we may enhance their well being and protec—
tion. As you well know all animal research is not
done just for the benefit of humans.

I have instituted the following changes at Du-
quesne University in order to minimize the use
of animals in research and teaching laboratories:

O Consolidation of animal care facilities to pro-
vide maximum care and minimum use.

0 Routine management of the animal care facili-
ties by the University veterinarian.

0 Use of non-animal methods in teaching and re-
search.

0 Use of living systems, such as micro-organisms
and tissue culture methods.

0 Use of non-living systems like epidemiologic
databases, chemical and physical systems that
mimic biologic systems.

0 Computer programs that simulate biological
functions and interactions.

0 An Institutional Animal Care and Use Com-
mittee with two lay persons who oversee the
entire animal care operation.

As President of this University, I will always
seek ways and means to safeguard the animal
welfare.

God bless you.

Sincerely yours,
Rev. Donald S. Nesti, C.S. Sp

0
‘A POET AMONG WOLVES’

    

lean Pearson and friends

jean Pearson, poet and animal rights advocate
from Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, will present a
reading of her own work and that of the Lapland
poet Paulus Utsi, at 7:30 pm. on Tuesday, March
24, at the Academy of Natural Sciences in Phil-
adelphia, PA. The American Anti-Vivisection
Society [AA-VS] is the principal sponsor of the
reading, which is one of many being held during
the city’s fourth annual POETRY WEEK.

The AV

 

 

 

 

Ms. Pearson holds a Ph.D. in Germanic litera-
ture and has seen her works published in various
journals and anthologies, including the Amer-
ican Poetry Review, Milkweed Chronicle, Earth’s
Daughters, Pantheist Vision and The Christian
Science Monitor. An AA—VS Life Member, she
is currently editing an anthology of poetry and
prose on wolves. The reading promises to be a
very unusual and rich event. Drawing on her own
experience studying wolves, Ms. Pearson will
share her writings, which explore and celebrate
the interdependence of humans, animals and the
natural environment. Her poems illuminate the
natural connections between the environmental-
ist ethic and the emerging animal rights move-
ment.

In addition, Ms. Pearson will read from her
own published translations of the late Lapp poet
Paulus Utsi, with slides and taped wolf sounds.
Her interest in Utsi began when she visited Swe-
den in order to trace the Swedish roots of her
father’s family. Her enduring interest in the work
of Utsi and other European writers has led her to
translate Germanic and Swedish nature poetry
for a variety of journals.

Ms. Pearson traces her interest in wolves to the
simultaneously protective and frightening images
she had of them during the course of a long child-
hood illness. Since that time, wolves have held a
special fascination for her, and have also served
as a source of inspiration for her writing. In her
presentation at colleges, churches, coffeehouses
and arts centers, Ms. Pearson has shown that she
is one of those rare individuals who is able to
raise serious issues without compromising the
aesthetic quality of her work. Her impassioned
poetry reflects her strongly held belief that every
life is unique and all life sacred.

While the reading has no direct relationship to
the work of The AA-VS, it is obvious that all
animals benefit when humans are encouraged to
consider their relationship with other inhabitants
of the earth. Poetry is an ancient art and remains
one of the most powerful cultural media available
in human society. The AA—VS will continue to
support this kind of endeavor in the future.

The Academy of Natural Sciences is located at
19th and the Benjamin Franklin Parkway in
downtown Philadelphia. Admission to “A Poet
Among Wolves” is $2.00, payable at the door. All
those interested in attending, however, are urged
to contact the AA-VS office in order to help us
judge the necessity of renting additional space
for the presentation.

0
(more VOICES on next page)

February 1987 - 17




 

 

TO THE NEW ENGLAND [O URNAL
OF MEDICINE:

Gentlemen:

Some members of the New Medical Founda-
tion, established last year in Chicago by a rapidly
growing group of eminent American MDs, have
sent to me for comment the article you published
in the Number 14 of your journal (Oct. 2, 1986),
titled “THE CASE FOR THE USE OF ANIMALS
IN BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH,” by one Prof. Carl
Cohen.

In my view, this article, appearng in a suppos-
edly scientific publication of great renown such
as yours, represents an epitome of medical decep-
tiveness, which you will find very difficult to live
down.

Let me cite the opening sentences:

“Using animals as research subjects in medical
investigations is widely condemned on two
grounds: first, because it wrongly violates the rights
of animals, and second, because it wrongly im-
poses on sentient creatures much avoidable suf-
fering. Neither of these arguments is sound.”

‘ This is a philosophical concept, with which I
won’t argue, even though I disagree. There is a
host of brilliant “moral philosophers” around to-
day who can easily rebut and ridicule all of Prof.
Cohen’s inane argumentations which he so abun—
dantly recites in support of his unproven and
unprovable statement. My objection is of a purely
scientific nature.

The deceptiveness I was referring to does not
concern what Prof. Cohen says, but what he doesn’t
say. His sin is one of omission. He only mentions
two grounds, which provide a boundless arena
for abstract discussions. Deliberately, cunningly,
he ignores the third ground—the most important
one, the most damning and embarrassing for the
advocates of animal experimentation; its disas-
trous fallaciousness, which has made modern
medicine the principal cause of maladies today.
AIDS is just the last in time, and more new mal-
adies caused by the most absurd method of med-
ical research in the history of mankind will
inevitably follow.

No surgeon has ever acquired his skill by prac-
ticing on a wrong model, and as far as the phar-
maceutical racket is concerned, allow me to name
just a few drugs: Distaval, Paracetamol, Eraldin,
Clofibrate, Preludin, Pronap, Amydopyrine,
Phenacetin, Methotrexate, Isoniazi, Mitotane,
Chloramphenicol, Oxychinol, DES, Primodos,
Duogynon, Debendox, Accutane, Opren, Zomax,
Mucron, Epinepherine, Butazolidin, Tanderil,
Feldene, Isoproterenol, which are a few of the
countless deadly duds that had been “safety-

18 - February 1987

 

 

tested” on animals before causing world-wide
millions of cases of blindness, paralysis, deaths,
and more such “side-effects” after extensive ani-
mal tests had given them a clean bill of health.

Publication of this information will enhance
your medical standing.

Sincerely,
Hans Ruesch
“Civis”
0
WHO ARE

THE TERRORISTS?

Twelve animal rights activists who were arrested
and prosecuted in California were Classified as
“terrorists” in the 1985 Annual Report of the
California Legislature: Organized Crime in
California, from the Attorney General’s Office.
(See the AV Magazine, October 1986, p. 18.) By
implication and inference all of us who work for
animal rights might be considered “terrorists.”

Now we’re included in the lists
Of black and brutal terrorists:
We have been ranked with the highjackers,
The bombers, and sadistic “crackers,”
Masked fiends with grenades in their fists.

Who would have guessed it? For our aim,
Which we quite openly proclaim,

Is to defend defenseless things

That go on paws and fins and wings.
From those who kill, torture and maim.

It is not crime in any wise
That we attempt to organize,

Unless it be the legal fashion

T0 class our practical compassion
As a subversive exercise.

There is a paradox somewhere:
For are not torturers who scare
Small helpless creatures that they kill
To practise their sadistic skill
Real terrorists beyond compare?
Liam Brophy
O
=1 IlllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllIllll|lllllllll|l|IlllIlllllllIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll '

FINISHED READING?
PLEASE CONSIDER GIVING THIS
MAGAZINE TO A FRIEND.
HELP US
INFORM OTHERS OF OUR ANIMAL
RIGHTS CAUSE.

:I IIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllll

ll..

Illllllllllllii

..IllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllll

1mmmmmmmmmmm

H

The AV

 

 




IN LOVING MEMORY OF BILL SANDIFER.

Sadie Sandifer
Evergreen, CO

IN LOVING MEMORY OF FRANCES M. FEELY.

Agnes Feely
Philadelphia, PA

IN MEMORY OF MY BELOVED HUSBAND,
STANLEY B. OULTON.

Mrs. Lily Oulton
Burlington, WA

TO “BARNEY,” a gentle stray German Short-hair
Boxer who was six years old when he died on
November 10, 1986 of the ﬂu. He had one blue
eye and one brown eye and a crippled right front
foot. He’s sadly missed by my sister, Mary Ann,

 

 

 

and myself.

Bill Ross
Jeannette, PA

IN MEMORY OF “10 10.”

Mrs. Gladys Warino
Los Angeles, CA

IN MEMORY of dearest “WILLY-LUMP-LUMP,”
an abandoned dog who was rescued in February
1975 and who died November 7, 1986.

Mrs. John E. Ross
Wilmington, DE

IN LOVING MEMORY of my two dear departed
friends, “MERCEDES BENZ,” a German Shep-
herd and “SNIPPY ANN,” my precious Wire-
haired Terrier. They are not really gone, for the
bond of love between us spans all distances.

Lillian Ann Sprotte
Laguna Hills, CA

IN HONOR OF MR. ROBERT S. STEINER.

Phoebe and Russell Perry
Dallas, TX

IN LOVING MEMORY OF “NANUSHKA KRIPS,”
born March 9, 1978 — at rest Iuly 30, 1986; my

friend and my exceptionally beautiful Siberian
Husky.

Robert Krips

IN LOVING MEMORY of those who have left me
very lonely; “SADIE,” “BLACKIE,” “KIM,”
“KIMMIE,” and “TIM.” I miss you all very much.

Marguerite Burke
Halifax, NS CANADA

IN MEMORY of my best pal and best friend for
15 years — my dog, “SAM.” He was extremely
loyal and a real gentleman. I shall always re-
member you and love you, dear Sam.

Bob Chiappari
San Francisco, CA

The AV

 

k—K—uﬁ
TRIBUTES

.A donation in any amount as a loving tribute to a relative, friend or pet
Wlu enable us to list in this column the person or pet so honored.

IN MEMORY of my precious “ALI,” a beautiful
big black cat, who came as a stray in 1979 giving
me the pleasure of his presence. I loved him dearly.
He was my pet, my friend and my companion and
will always be missed.

Demetra Christian
Seattle, WA

“God made all the creatures and gave them our
love and our fear, To give sign, we and they are
His children, one family here.”Robert Browning
IN LOVING MEMORY of nephew IEROME C.
HARRISON, IR., who made his transition Sep-
tember 26, 1986 at age 28. We will miss you ’till
we meet again.

Nina Harrison Trent
George Trent
Pensacola, FL

IN MEMORY of our dear little parakeet, “BUTCH.”
He was our dear friend for eight years and is
sorely missed.

Mary A. Haag
Buffalo, NY

MY DEAREST “CHOW.” Each day the pain of
love lost still burns. I weep all the more this
Christmas on the first year anniversary of when
leukemia took you from me. Your catnip mouse
awaits, unopened. Love you, my little girl. It isn’t
the same without you and “SPOOKY.”

Lindy Gessner
Madison, N I

IN MEMORY OF “KEIKI”—15 years of loving.

Grace Sakamoto
Kaneohe, HI

FOR IANIS AND HER CAT, “LESTER.”

Karen Mueller
Fenton, MO

IN MEMORY OF NEIL ELDRIDGE, a young man
who loved people, animals and life. People and
animals loved him back. Life cheated him. He
will be lovingly remembered by all who knew
him.

Patricia Mumper

Bloomfield, CT

IN TRIBUTE TO “KAI.” Thank you for the 17
years of love, devotion and affection you gave.
You were always a perfect little gentleman, and
we will always love and miss you until that long
day when we will be together again.

A Good Friend

IN MEMORY OF MY BELOVED WIFE, CLARE.

Charles Wessel
Somers Point, N]

 

February 1987 - 1.9

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

TRIBUTE

to a Dog

by
Senator George G. Vest

Gentlemen of the Jury: —— The best friend a man has in this
world may turn against him and become his enemy. His son or
daughter that he has reared with loving care may prove ungrateful.
Those who are nearest and dearest to us, those whom we trust with
our happiness and our good name, may become traitors to their
faith. The money that a man has he may lose. It ﬂies away from
him, perhaps when he needs it most. A man’s reputation may be
sacriﬁced in a moment of ill-considered action. The people who are
prone to fall on their knees to do us honor when success is with us
may be the first to throw the stone of malice when failure settles
its cloud upon our heads. The one absolutely unselfish friend that
man can have in this selfish world, the one that never deserts him,
the one that never proves ungrateful or treacherous, is his dog.

Gentlemen of the Jury, a man’s dog stands by him in prosperity
and in poverty, in health and in sickness. He will sleep on the cold
ground, where the wintry winds blow and the snow drives ﬁercely,
if only he may be near his master’s side. He will kiss the hand that
has no food to offer; he will lick the wounds and sores that come in
encounter withthe roughness of the world. He guards the sleep of
his pauper master as if he were a prince. When all other friends
desert he remains. When riches take wings and reputation falls to
pieces, he is as constant in his love as the sun in its journey through
the heavens. If fortune drives the master forth an outcast in the
world, friendless and homeless, the faithful dog asks no higher
privilege than that of accompanying him to guard against danger,
to ﬁght against his enemies, and when the last scene of all comes,
and death takes the master in its embrace and his body is laid away
in the cold ground, no matter if all other friends pursue their way,
there by his graveside will the noble dog he found, his head between

his paws, his eyes sad but open in alert watchfulness, faithful and
true even to death.

THE AMERICAN ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY
SUITE 204 NOBLE PLAZA, 801 OLD YORK ROAD,
JENKINTOWN, PENNSYLVANIA 19046-1685

A NON 'PROFIT EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION
DEDICATED TO THE ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION

 




<

ent ' wnU

 

 

 




 

POLICY STATEMENT

The purpose of the Newsletter is to provide a central source of information about nonhuman primates
and related matters, which will be of use both to the community of scientists who use these animals in
their research and to those persons whose work supports such research. Accordingly, the Newsletter (1)
provides infomation on care, breeding, and procurement of nonhuman primates for laboratory research,
(2) disseminates general information and news about the world of primate research (such as
announcements of meetings, research projects, sources of information, nomenclature changes), (3) helps
meet the special research needs of individual investigators by publishing requests for research material or
for information related to speciﬁc research problems, and (4) serves the cause of conservation of
nonhuman primates by publishing information on that topic. As a rule, the only research articles or
summaries that will be accepted for the Newsletter are those that have some practical implications or that
provide general information likely to be of interest. to investigators in a variety of areas of primate
research. However, special consideration will be given to articles containing data on primates not
conveniently publishable elsewhere. General descriptions of current research projects on primates will also
be welcome.

The Newsletter appears quarterly and is intended primarily for persons doing research with
nonhuman primates. Back issues may be purchased for $2.00 each. (Please make checks payable to
Brown University.)

The publication lag is typically no longer than the 3 months between issues and can be as short as a
few weeks. The deadline for inclusion of a note or article in any given issue of the Newsletter has in
practice been somewhat ﬂexible, but is technically the ﬁfteenth of December, March, June. or September,
depending on which issue is scheduled to appear next. Reprints will not be supplied under any
circumstances.

PREPARATION 01“ ARTICLES FOR THE NEWSLETTER.» Articles, notes, and announcements
should be submitted in duplicate and all copy should be double spaced. Articles in the References section
should be referred to in the text by author(s) and date of publication, as for example: Smith (1960) or
(Smith & Jones, 1962). Names of journals should be spelled out completely in the References section.
Technical names of monkeys should be indicated at least once in each note and article. In general, to avoid
inconsistencies within the Newsletter (see Editor’s Notes, July, 1966 issue). the scientific names used will
be those in Mammal Species of The World: A Taxonomic and Geographic Reference. J. H. Honacki, K. E.
Kinman, & J. W. Koeppl (Eds). Lawrence, KA: Allen Press and the Association of Systematics
Collections, 1982. For an introduction to and review of primate nomenclature see the chapter by
Maryeva Terry in A. M. Schrier (Ed.). Behavioral Primatology: Advances in Research and Theory (Vol. 1).
Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1977.

All correspondence concerning the Newsletter should be addressed to:
Allan M. Schrier, Psychology Department, Brown University
Providence, Rhode Island 02912. (Phone: 401-863-2511)

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The Newsletter is supported by U. S. Public Health Service
Grant RR-00419 from the Animal Resources Program,
Division of Research Resources, N.I.H.

We are grateful to Linda Straw Coelho of San Antonio, Texas
for providing the cover drawing of a chimpanzee.

9

Managing Editor: Helen Janis Shuman

Copyright ° 1984 by Brown University

 

 




CONTENTS

Articles and Notes

Value and Ethics of Research on Animals, by Neal E. Miller ...................

How Radical Animal Activists Try to Mislead Humane People, by D. Caroline Coile and
Neal E. Miller

Experimental Infection of Chimpanzees with Lymphadenopathy-Associated Virus ......

Twin Stumptailed Monkeys Born in Laboratory, by A. M. Schrier & M. L. Povar

Managing Editor’s Lament, by Helen J. Shuman ........................
News, Information, and Announcements

New Officers of International Primatological Society Elected

Video Tape Available on Animals in Research ..........................

Research News: Inner Ear Transplant Research

International Conference on Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome ..............

Field Station in Portugal to Include Primate Research

News Briefs

Animal Liberation Group Strikes Again .........................
Charles River Prize to Held ................................
MFA Cancels Toronto Demonstration

Primate Supply Shrinks ......................................

New Primatology Series Announced by SUNY Press ......................
Departments

Recent Books and Articles

Address Changes

10

10

15

17

19

20

20
20

22

22

 




 

 

 

Value and Ethics of Research on Animals*

Neal E. Miller
The Rockefeller University

Main Points to be Made

In this talk, I hope to contribute to an
understanding of the following points which we,
as scientists and teachers, have a duty to help
our students and the general public to
understand:

1) How research on animals has been, and
still is, extremely important in contributing to
advances in medical knowledge that have
enormously relieved both animal and human
suffering. In spite of overwhelming evidence for
such contributions, many antivivisectionists from
the days of Pasteur approximately a century ago,
right up to the present day, continue to deny such
beneﬁts. A pamphlet passed out by protesters in
front of our meetings says that billions of dollars
spent on animal research on cancer have not
saved any human lives and that similar research
by NIH has not conquered a single major disease.
To misinform the public in this way is immoral.
Many well-meaning people who love their pet
animals are taken in by such cruel lies.

2) The very nature of basic
research—-exploring the unknown-~means that one
often cannot predict exactly what will be
discovered and when and how it will be valuable.
Many medical advances that have greatly
contributed to the relief of both animal and
human suffering were the result of increases in
knowledge produced by research on animals that
had no immediate practical goals in sight.
Therefore, it does not make any sense to require
that research that may cause animals to suffer
cannot be justiﬁed by merely contributing to
knowledge, but must be justiﬁed by a speciﬁc
expectation for a sufﬁcient reduction in human

 

*This is a slightly edited version of a
paper presented at the meeting of the American
Psychological Association, Anaheim, CA, August,
1983. '
Author’s address: The Rockefeller
University, 1230 York Ave., New York, NY
10021.

suffering. I maintain that the scrutiny for
scientiﬁc value that we already have in the peer-
review system is adequate. In 1982, 84% of the
projects submitted to NIH were approved but only
33% were funded. This is rigorous screening.
Any further required justiﬁcation in terms of
expected prompt, speciﬁc reduction in human
misery is based on a failure to understand the
often unpredictable ways in which basic
biomedical research makes valuable contributions
to human welfare. It is a waste of the scientist’s
time and the taxpayer’s money.

3) The key ethical issue is the one that has
been raised over the years by the more extreme
antivisectionists, namely whether people have
any right to exploit animals or to cause them to
suffer in any way for any human beneﬁt. But, if
we don’t have any right to exploit animals for
research to relieve human suffering, we certainly
have no right to exploit animals as pets,
beneﬁcial though that may be to lonely people. I
shall elaborate on this obvious point which is
conspicuously neglected by the radical animal
activists who liken any exploitation of animals to
racism. We also would have no right to eat meat,
eggs, or milk, no right to build fences to prevent
animals from destroying most of our crops, and
certainly no right to hunt and ﬁsh. But how
much support would radical animal activists get
for legislation to prevent other people from all of
these activities? Why is the biomedical research
that has contributed so much to both animal and
human welfare singled out for attack?

4) Milder versions of the extreme
antivivisectionists’ stand are that people have no
right to perform any experiments that cause any
animals to suffer, or to suffer beyond a certain
point. But such a stand would prevent research
on the very conditions that cause the most human
suffering. I believe that it is profoundly cruel and
immoral to prevent or to seriously hinder the
research that is needed to relieve conditions that
produce the most suffering by animals and by
people.

5) A still milder view is that it is wrong to
perform research that causes unnecessary

 




 

suffering. I myself and all of the many colleagues
whom I know certainly agree; we all should be
alert to prevent any unnecessary suffering. For
both scientiﬁc and humane reasons we should
train our students to prevent any unnecessary
suffering. The New York Academy of Sciences is
sponsoring a special committee to coordinate and
facilitate the activities that the various scientiﬁc
societies already have, to insure that research on
animals involves no unnecessary suffering
(Sechzer, 1983, pp. ix-x, 222). I am a member of
that committee.

It may not always be simple, however, to
decide what is necessary and what is
unnecessary. For example, how much of the
taxpayer’s or voluntary health organizations’
money should be spent, and how much should
research be slowed down to avoid the necessity
for a relatively mild restraint to which the
animals can be readily adapted?

Value of Research on Animals
Some Early Examples

Let us start with a bit of early history
because the examples are easy to understand
and, with the passage of time, the results have
become perfectly clear.

A century ago, the sight of a dog frothing at
the mouth and the cry “Mad dog!” used to strike
terror into the hearts of people and cause the dog
to be shot as quickly as possible. At that time,
15% of those bitten at all and 80% of those bitten
in the head or face acquired hydrophobia, now
called rabies, and everyone who contracted it
died! Pasteur found that he could inoculate this
disease into monkeys and pass it from one
monkey to another, and that when he did this it
became progressively weaker, which enabled him
to develop a vaccine. He furnished the scientiﬁc
commission, established by the French
government, with 23 vaccinated dogs. These and
19 unvaccinated ones were all inoculated from
rabid animals. Fifteen of the 19 unvaccinated
dogs died, but only one of the 23 vaccinated dogs
died and it died of diarrhea. As the result of
these animal experiments, the Pasteur treatment
for human rabies was developed and, of the
55,000 early cases of dog bite given the Pasteur
treatment, the number of deaths was reduced

from the previous 15% to less than 1%--a saving
of approximately 7,700 lives. But, in spite of this
overwhelming evidence, Mr. Stephen Coleridge,
the most prominent antivivisectionist in England,
wrote: “The Pastuer Institutes in Paris and
elsewhere have entirely failed to prevent people
dying of hydrophobia” (Keen, 1914, pp. 20, 265).
And now, rabies, which once caused dogs to suffer
terribly, virtually never occurs in developed
countries where their vaccination is required.
Many thousand times more animals have
beneﬁted than the relatively few caused to suffer
in Pasteur’s experiments.

At about the same time, Koch proved that a
speciﬁc type of bacteria caused the then dreadful
disease of tuberculosis. First, he showed that the
bacteria could always be found in patients
suffering from the disease. But this infection
could have been a secondary result of the
weaknesss caused by tuberculosis rather than the
primary cause. Therefore, a second step was
needed, namely, that a condition closely
resembling the human disease could be produced
by inoculating the bacteria into a suitable animal.
And third, that the speciﬁc bacteria could be
isolated from animals so infected. Passage of the
disease through a longer succession of animals
made the proof utterly convincing. These steps,
called Koch’s Postulates, became the classical
way of establishing the remarkable fact that a
large number of speciﬁc diseases are caused by
speciﬁc bacteria.

Work of the foregoing kind established the
germ theory of disease. Ingenious experiments
by Pasteur and others, which could be performed
with culture media in glass containers rather
than with the animals required for the foregoing
work, refuted the theory of spontaneous
generation and showed that bacteria could come
only from other bacteria. The combination of
both types of the foregoing experiments laid the
basis for sanitation and for sterile techniques.

Before Lister introduced sterile techniques,
serious wounds required the amputation of the
arm or leg and were accompanied by weeks of
horrible infection producing cupsful of foul-
smelling pus, and frequently, when the places
where blood vessels were tied rotted, there was
disastrous bleeding. Many of the patients died.
Any wound that pierced the intestine was a
virtual sentence of painful death.

 

 




 

 

Impressed by the work of Pasteur and
others, Lister changed all of this by introducing
sterile techniques into surgery. One of his
procedures was to sterilize in a solution of carbolic
acid the silk threads used to tie off arteries. He
tried this out ﬁrst on the great blood vessel in the
neck of a horse. The operation was a success.
Later he substituted catgut for silk with even
greater success, having tried out this procedure
first on a calf. Dr. Keen, a surgeon who lived
through the years before and after Lister, has
described the changes produced by Lister’s
techniques as follows: “While the patient made a
smooth and speedy recovery without
complications, the surgeon slept the uninterrupted
sleep of the just, secure against wearing anxiety
on account of sudden hemorrhage or insidious
infection. The heart-breaking tragedies which
often made the surgeon wish he were a hod-
carrier or even in his grave are by now but
specters of a horrid past” (Keen, 1914, p. 2111).

Yet when Lister sought to improve his
techniques still further and experiment with other
types of sutures, the activities of the
antivivisectionists forced him to leave England
and do this work in France! While this work,
which so greatly contributed to the relief of
human and animal misery by laying the
foundation for modern surgery, was being
impeded by the antivivisectionists, those who shot
foxes and birds for nothing better than pure sport
were not forced to leave England to do their
hunting in France. And a similar ironic contrast
exists today. Shooting a few deeply anesthetized
dogs and pigs to ﬁnd a better way to save the
lives of our soldiers who are wounded with new
high-velocity weapons recently aroused emotional
protests. False and misleading information was
publicized. A barrage of phone calls was
organized. Legislators were persuaded to write
letters to Secretary of Defense Weinberger.
Against the advice of his Science Advisor, he
immediately ordered the work to be stopped. The
Pentagon announced that no dogs would be shot
“as long as Casper Weinberger is Secretary of
Defense” (Washington Post, July 28, 1983).

As a veteran who spent four years in the
army during World War II, I deeply resent seeing
radical animal activists being able to convince
some Congressmen to get other legislators to
demand the stopping of research that will save
the lives of our wounded soldiers fighting for our

country. I believe this is inhumane, cruel, and
unpatriotic, as is the Pentagon’s caving in to such
pressure.

Another major contribution to surgery was
the discovery of local and general anesthetics
whose effects were ﬁrst demonstrated by
experiments on animals. Thanks to them, the
vast majority of experiments on animals and
operations on animals and on people now can be
conducted without causing any pain.

Continuing through today, the advances in
surgery--operations to save the lives of “blue
babies,” transplants of kidneys, livers and other
organs, replacement of arthritic hips and knee
joints, coronary bypass operations, the use of
laser beams-~all had to be developed first by
experiments on animals. And experiments that
will relieve the suffering of future generations are
continuing, but coming under increasing attacks
leading to attempts at legislation that will slow
their progress and increase their expense. By
needlessly prolonging human and animal
suffering, giving in to such attacks is inhumane
and cruel.

Some Lessons from the H istorjy of Antibiotics

Since research, especially the pioneering
research that results in new discoveries, involves
exploring the unknown, one cannot be certain
what one will find. Before they start the work,
investigators cannot tell for certain whether they
are entering a blind alley or a path that will lead
to success. This is illustrated by the development
of antibiotics. Syphilis was a dreadful disease.
Patients in its ﬁnal stage, called paresis,
characteristically suffered from grotesque
delusions of grandeur and persecution. They used
to account for about 20% of those conﬁned to
mental hospitals. Now such cases are extremely
rare. After Metchnikoff succeeded in inoculating
syphilis into apes and other animals, experiments
became possible. These soon resulted in the
discovery of the spirochete (an animal somewhat
larger than bacteria) that was responsible. To
combat this organism, Ehrlich had the idea of
combining a dye that would speciﬁcally stain that
animal with a poison. After 605 attempts that
were failures because compounds were either
ineffective or too poisonous, he discovered that
the 606th one, Salversan, was both effective and
relatively safe. In summarizing this work, Keen

 




 

 

(1914) says: “In seven years, experiments on
animals did more for alleviating human misery
from this one disease than clinical observation on
man had done in over four centuries.”

Ehrlich’s work spurred a burst of other
attempts to kill infectious agents, but there were
so many failures that the strong belief developed
that any substance poisonous enough to kill
bacteria would necessarily have an even more
harmful effect on human tissues and therefore
retard rather than aid healing. Thus, when in
1928 Fleming discovered that a mould was killing
the bacteria in one of his cultures, he was
strongly discouraged by his superior from
following this up. And in spite of some
experiments that should have been convincing to
any impartial judge, he was unable to get money
to hire a biochemist to help him to refine
penicillin, which we neglected for 10 years until
the discovery of the antibacterial effects of
sulfanilamide encouraged Florey and Chain to
resume the work. The success of these two drugs
led to a new spurt of research and the discovery
of other antibiotics, the safety of which had to be
tested on animals which necessarily suffered if
the new antibiotic was too poisonous, as most of
them were. The successful antibiotics gave
doctors the chance for the first time to cure many
more animal and human diseases. When Calvin
Coolidge was President of the United States. his
son got an infection in a blister on his foot. This
developed into blood poisoning which killed him in
spite of the best medical care that this country
could supply then. Now virtually no one dies of
blood poisoning.

There are two lessons from this history of
antibiotics: 1) We should be humble aboutﬁour
ability to predict that a given type of research
that is competently conducted and yielding results
is likely to be worthless; 2) in research, one
must expect that a large number of experiments
Will turn out to be failures, but the rare successes
that lead to significant practical applications are
important enough to pay for all of the failures
many times over. But one cannot tell in advance
Wthh experiments will fail.

The Battle Against Mental Disease

th It is hard for anybody who was not there
en to imagine the horrible conditions in the back

w
ards of many overcrowded, under-financed,

 

large mental hospitals. There was a nauseating
stench of urine and feces, and screams of animal
rage, sheer panic, and despair! Patients beat
each other or attacked attendants. Some patients
had to be completely restrained for hours in strait
jackets or by being wrapped tightly in wet Sheets.
Others spent hours motionlessly staring into
space. Schizophrenics were considered hOpeless,
certain only to get worse and never to return to
their loved ones.

The revolutionary changes produced by
chlorpromazine and other tranquilizers and
antipsychotics, which in turn allowed
psychotherapy and other humanizing changes to
be introduced, have been described by Overholser
(1956): “The atmosphere of disturbed wards has
been completely revolutionized. The patients now
remain clothed; they are quiet; they do not annoy
each other; they conform to the conventions; take
an interest in their personal appearance and in
the appearance of the ward.” Many
schizophrenics can be released to return to their
loved ones and function in the community.
(Unfortunately. some others. less able to cope,
have been turned out on the streets.)

In order to find out what led to the discovery
of the drug chlorpromazine. which was
responsible for so much of this change and whose
beneficial effects had been decisively
demonstrated by double-blind studies in which
neither the staff administering the drug and
observing the changes nor the patients knew who
was getting the drug and who was getting a
sugar pill. the Brain Sciences Committee of the
National Academy of Sciences commissioned a
historian of science, Dr. Judith Swazey, to study
the steps that had led to the discovery of this
drug. Although the study was not aimed at that
purpose, Swazey's (1974) book makes clearly
evident the role of experiments on animals, some
of them behavioral experiments and some of them
necessarily causing a few animals to suffer
(Miller, 19833).

Other points that Dr. Swazey’s study
emphasizes are the unpredictability of the course
of the research that led to such immense benefits
and the time-consuming sequence leading to the
pay-off that was worth many times the cost of
the work. To quote from the Foreword by an
eminent brain scientist. Seymour Kety: “We can
thus compare with the wisdom of hindsight, what

 

 




 

 

we know to have been relevant with what would
have been considered so at the time. One
conclusion, immediately apparent and rather
surprising, is that none of the crucial ﬁndings or
pathways that led, over the Course of a century,
to the ultimate discovery of chlorpromazine would
at ﬁrst have been called relevant to the treatment
of mental illness by even the most sophisticated
judge.”

There are many other beneﬁts from
behavioral experiments on animals. Research on
animal learning, starting with experiments by
Thorndike (1898) which were not aimed at any
clinical problem, led directly over the years to the
development of techniques of behavior therapy
that have been useful in treating conditions such
as phobias and compulsions and that are now
being applied in an increasing range of medical
situations such as pain clinics and rehabilitation
centers (Ince, 1976; Miller, 1983b; Pomerleau &
Brady, 1979). A few of these experiments used
electric shocks, but the vast majority did not
involve any suffering.

Although signiﬁcant gains have been, and
are continuing to be made in the battle against
mental diseases, additional work is needed to
increase our understanding of, and our ability to
prevent and cure, the catastrophic behavioral
problems that they can create. For example,
chlorpromazine and the other drugs for treating
schizophrenia are most successful in treating its
active symptoms such as hallucinations, delusions
and violent behavior; their prolonged use also can
produce undesirable side effects such as
uncontrollable movements. The tranquilizers are
much less successful in reducing the deﬁcits, such
as emotional blunting, interpersonal withdrawal,
apathy, and loss of initiative. We badly need
ways of counteracting the latter to produce a
more complete cure. Experiments on such
complex forms of behavior cannot be carried out
on bacteria or on tissue cultures, although the
results of the latter can help to lay a better
foundation for certain types of behavioral
research.

A Monumental Study

In the broad area of pulmonary and
cardiovascular medicine, Comroe and Dripps
(1977) asked a panel of 90 knowledgeable
physicians and surgeons to select the top 10

clinical advances that had saved or greatly
prolonged the lives of their patients, prevented
disease, or greatly decreased suffering or
disability. They selected open-heart surgery,
blood vessel surgery, treatment of hypertension,
management of coronary artery disease,
prevention of poliomyelitis, chemotherapy of
tuberculosis and acute rheumatic fever, cardiac
resuscitation and cardiac pacemakers, oral
diuretics (for the treatment of high blood pressure
and of congestive heart failure), intensive care
units, and new diagnostic tests. Then Comroe
and Dripps made an intensive survey of the
literature, selecting 663 key articles describing
the research essential for these 10 major clinical
advances and analyzed the work that they
represented. Although their study does not
attempt speciﬁcally to pull out the role of animal
research, reading it clearly indicates that such
research played signiﬁcant roles at multiple
points in the paths leading up to each of the 10
major clinical advances. Furthermore, among
their speciﬁcally listed ﬁndings, the following
quotation is especially pertinent to a point I have
been making: “Of the 663 key articles essential
for 10 major clinical advances, 41.6% reported
research done by scientists whose goal at that
time was unrelated to the later clinical advance;
41.6% thus sought knowledge for the sake of
knowledge.” Who were the inhumane and cruel
ones--the scientists who performed the research
that led to the 10 major clinical advances that
have relieved so much human suffering or the
antivivisectionsts who tried to mislead well-
meaning people who love animals into stopping
such research?

Have New Techniques Made Animal Research
Obsolete?

We have shown the great contributions that
research on animals have made to the medical
progress that has enormously reduced both
animal and human suffering. We have shown
that these beneﬁts often occur in ways that could
not be predicted in advance and sometimes only
after a long chain of developments. In the case of
chlorpromazine, this chain extended throughout a
century. In spite of this overwhelming evidence,
much of the antivivisectionist propaganda for
many years has continued to deny any such
contributions. In addition, it is now asserting
that the development of new techniques, such as
bacterial and tissue cultures and computers are

 




 

 

making animal research obsolete.

I have consistently taught my graduate
students to be alert for the possibilities of new
techniques that allow one to do something that
has been impossible before. The use of such
techniques often has led to rapid advances in
science by the people who first use them. Thus,
research scientists have every reason to be
strongly motivated to exploit every new
technique. As a result of a larger proportion of
effort devoted to new techniques, the number of
animals used in research is declining. Drug
companies have a strong motivation to use tests
on bacteria or tissue cultures wherever possible.
A typical test for the mutagenic effect of a drug,
indicating a danger that it will produce cancer,
costs approximately $500,000 if performed on
rats or mice and only $2,000 if performed on
bacteria--certainly drug companies do not need
any greater incentive than this huge difference in
cost-~only 1/250th as much! But there are a
number of reasons why the reactions of an intact
mammal may be different from those of a tissue
culture or bacteria. For example, a chemical may
be concentrated in a specialized type of cell in a
mammal where it does crucial damage.
Furthermore, in trying to get rid of a drug, the
liver may break it down into a new compound
that is far more damaging. Finally, any
damaging effects that the drug may have on the
integrated action of the nervous system and
glands and on behavior may require the intact
animal to show up.

A computer is a machine for processing
information. Its answers are no better than the
information that it receives. In a vast number of
cases, we do not have nearly enough information
to allow computers to solve new biomedical
problems. To get such information will require
many more experiments on animals. Computers
are useful in making predictions about the
weather, but only if they have detailed
information about temperature, pressure, winds.
etc. from a large number of weather stations. To
say that computers can substitute for research on
animals is about as sensible as saying that they
can substitute for weather stations. Computers
are useful and, if used intelligently, may in some
cases reduce the numbers of animals needed but
they are an extremely long way from being’able
to substitute for all animal research.

 

It is amusing that the same antivivisection
pamphlet often will say that our closest animal
relatives are so different from people that none of
the experiments on these animals can be
generalized to people and, furthermore, that
bacteria and assemblies of silicon chips are
similar enough to people so that information from
them can be safely generalized to people and thus
make experiments on animals unnecessary.

The Ethical Choices

Now that we have seen the incontrovertible
value of animal research, let us face the key
moral issues raised by antivivisectionists.

Equal Rights: No Exploitation ofAnimals

For years, the radical leading edge of the
antivivisectionist, animal welfare, movement has
asserted that people have no right to exploit lower
animals. More recently, they have called such
exploitation speciesism and tried to equate it with
racism. They assert that animals have rights
equal to those of people and that no possible
anticipated human benefits can justify exploiting
animals in any way and especially not by using
them as subjects for biomedical research.

First let me point out that our favorite pets,
dogs and cats, do not follow any such rule. Dogs
exploit other animals, such as deer and
woodchucks, by hunting and eating them. Cats
kill birds and mice. Then let me point out what a
consistent application of the equal rights,
speciesism idea would involve.

One obvious implication is that we should not
eat meat, eggs, or milk. wear leather shoes or
furs, or sleep with down bags or pillows. Killing
animals for such purposes obviously iS
exploitation. If animals have equal rights, we
should not kill those who destroy our crops 110r
even fence in our fields to keep them out-changes
that, if universally forced by legislation, COUld
precipitate a major crisis of starvation in the
world. We even should not starve or poison the
rats that. if left to multiply freely, could cause
outbreaks of typhus and bubonic plague.

In fairness. it should be said that many
radical animal activists are vegetarians an
follow a number of these implications of thelr

 

 




 

4
l

doctrine, although they are practical enough not
to push for legislation to force all of us to stop
eating meat or milk because other sources of
protein have been proved to be adequate
substitutes. They concentrate on the animal
research which, as we shall see, is a minuscule
part of the exploitation they should consider to be
immoral.

But there is one clear implication of their
position that Peter Singer and the other radical
animal activists gloss over because to clarify it
would lose them the support by petitions,
demonstrations, and money from the many
animal lovers whom they try to lead. Speaking of
money, the endowment of the Massachusetts
Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals is
$42,100,000; its income from various sources in
1980 was over $10,000,000. Not long ago, the
radical animal activists tried to pack a meeting
and gain control of the New England
Antivivisection Society, which has a budget of
over $1,000,000 a year. They failed, but vowed
to try again.

The implication of the position that animals
have equal rights that the radical activists gloss
over is that the use of animals as pets is
speciesism, exploitation and hence immoral. Let
me be perfectly clear: my children and I have
loved a number of dogs and cats as pets and, as a
psychologist, I am aware of how therapeutic they
can be for lonely people. Yet, if you are going to
give animals equal rights and equate speciesism
with racism, what would you think of the
morality of taking people with a certain color of
skin and breeding them for certain qualities, such
as docility, pug noses, bulging eyes, or long
narrow heads, that were useful or amusing to
you, and thus altering their genetics until they
were no longer able to exist without you in a
natural environment? This is what we do to our
pets. Furthermore, we deprive many of them of
normal sex lives and neuter them, which is a
polite word for castration, so that they will not
inconvenience us by having too many offspring or
by marking our furniture with the scent of their
urine or by departing on excursions in search of a
mate. From the point of view of their natural
species-speciﬁc activities, we keep many of them
in an extremely impoverished environment and
make them dependent on us for food, water, and
companionship. These are conditions analogous
to those used in brain-washing so that, as would

 

not be true in their natural environment, we
become highly important in their lives. These
conditions are particularly extreme in city
apartments, especially if the people are absent
most of the day. Is not this speciesism--exploiting
animals for human pleasure? Why are the
radical animal activists not zealously pushing for
legislation that step-by-step progressively
restricts and complicates our ability to have
animals as pets with the ultimate goal of
completely abolishing this privilege?

Let me be clear, I have no objection to the
humane use of animals as pets. I am only
pointing out what the logical implications are of
the animal activist speciesism, animal rights,
position.

In other respects, the goals of certain leaders
of the radical animal activists are not narrow
ones. Richard Morgan, the National Coordinator
for the Mobilization for Animals which organized
the 1983 demonstrations against Regional
Primate Research Centers, has written:
“Agitation for animal rights is part of a
revolutionary process aimed at restructuring the
major institutions of society.”

It frightens me that activists with such
revolutionary views can have enough inﬂuence to
stop research in military laboratories that may
save the lives of our soldiers ﬁghting for our
country.

Incidentally, if one accepts the dubious
premise of the radical activists that animals have
equal rights with people, the logically inevitable
conclusion is that any veterinarian who puts an
old, sick or, unwanted pet to sleep should be
prosecuted for murder. Humane societies put
10,000,000 dogs and cats to sleep each year.

No Suffering, or None Beyond a Certain Point

Two less radical positions are that it is
permissible to use animals in research but only if
no suffering is involved or if suffering of certain
types deﬁned as extreme are strictly avoided.

First it should be pointed out that the vast
majority of experiments on animals do not involve -
suffering--either they use procedures that are
benign or surgical anesthesia is used to eliminate
any pain. There are no exact data on rats and

 

 




 

 

mice but, according to a Federal Report (Animal
Welfare Experiments in FY 1982) on other
animals, in less than one out of ten experiments
is- suffering necessary because preventing it
would be incompatible with the goal of the
research. In the examples I have given, I have
deliberately emphasized such suffering as was
necessary in the research that has produced such
great beneﬁts to animals and man.

As a clear example of necessary suffering,
the drugs that are poisonous enough to kill
cancers also temporarily damage normal parts of
the body. Therefore, the treatments for certain
cancers cause patients a transient period of great
distress. The strength of this suffering may be
judged from the fact that a few of the patients
with a particular type, testicular cancer, choose to
discontinue the treatments that have a high
probability of completely curing them even though
they know that stopping the treatments means
that they are virtually certain to die soon. The
research that is necessary to discover and test
drugs of this kind must cause animals similar
suffering; in fact, many of the new drugs tested
are likely to be worse--more poisonous to some
vital organ at doses that are less poisonous to the
cancer. We already have seen that there is an
extremely strong ﬁnancial incentive for scientists
and drug companies to substitute bacterial and
cell cultures to the extent possible, and also why
tests on the intact animal are necessary.

Leukemia, a cancer of the blood, is the single
disease that kills the most children between the
ages of 3 and 14. It causes great suffering, not
only to those whom it kills but also to their
parents who carry the pain of the loss of their
child with them for the rest of their lives.
Treatment with cancer-killing drugs has reduced
deaths of children under 10 from this disease by
over 40%. By stopping the research that has
enabled this progress, would you like to have
sentenced thousands of children to death? By
stopping the research that eventually is likely to
reduce the death rate of many of the remaining
60%, would you like to sentence many thousands
of future children to death? I believe that to do so

 

1 See article by Coile & Miller in this
issue of the Newsletter for additional information
on this question.

would be profoundly immoral, inhumane, and
cruel!

Since 1900, yearly deaths per 100,000
people from what were then the 10 leading killer
diseases have been reduced from 580 to 30! With
the conquest of killer plagues, the role in health of
behavioral factors, such as stress, are becoming
much more important (Miller, 1983a). For
example, experiments on animals have shown
that stress can decrease the effectiveness of the
immune system, produce high blood pressure,
precipitate sudden death, and produce
physiological and behavioral changes like those in
the mental depressions that are so distressing
that they frequently drive the people who have
them to suicide (Miller, 1980).

Pain--from cancer, from other diseases, from
burns and injuries, from headaches, back
problems and arthritis, to mention only a few of
the sources--is one of the most serious remaining
medical problems. It is a puzzling and complex
problem with significant psychological
components. The most effective pain-relieving
drugs that we have are addictive.

But one cannot do the experiments that
illuminate the causes of and discover cures for
pain and for the effects of stress without causing
some animals to suffer. And because of the
remarkable ability of the body to compensate for
mild pains and stresses, some of the most
important effects do not show up at low levels;
the effects are markedly non-linear. For this and
other reasons, setting a limit on the degree of
suffering that may be produced in an animal
experiment is likely to halt the understanding,
prevention, or cure of the very conditions that
produce the greatest animal and human suffering.
Would this be humane?

Why So Much Agitation About a Tiny Part of the
Problem?

In 1982, 1.5 million warm-blooded animals
were used in research, excluding rats and mice.
Approximately 4.5 million rats and 11 million
mice were used (personal communication from W.
C. Stewart, Senior Staff Veterinarian, U. S.
department of Agriculture). In contrast, 59
million dogs and 42 million cats were owned as
pets, and at least 10 million are killed by humane
societies each year. Dr. S. J. Flowers, in charge

 

 




 

 

of inspecting scientiﬁc facilities for the Canadian
Council on Animal Care has written: “I have
often stated, when I have spoken to humane
movements, that during most of my career as a
practicing veterinarian, there is no question'that I
saw far more abuse, neglect, and cruelty to farm
and pet animals than I have ever seen in any
research facility I visited (Sechzer, 1983, p. 154).

Yet there is no prospect of passing legislation
requiring pet owners to have a detailed plan for
the use and care of their pets approved by a
committee before they can have them, or raising
license fees enough to pay for a bureaucracy of
surprise inspections, and of establishing minimum
housing standards for pets. Understand, I am
not arguing for such measures, but why do the
radical animal activists not do so instead of
concentrating on legislation for the much smaller
problem of using animals in research? Minimum
standards for research animal rooms are already
higher than those for human habitation. If the
inspector ﬁnds any cockroaches, or even flecked
paint in my animal room, I hear about it. But
both exist in the Faculty Housing where I live.
And conditions in slum housing are vastly worse!

In 1982, more than 128 million cattle, hogs,
and sheep, and 4 billion chickens were killed for
food. Contrast these with the much smaller
number of animals used in research.

In 1980, more than 250 million game ﬁsh
were caught for sport by sharp hooks in their
mouths, but there is no prospect of passing a law
requiring all ﬁsherman to use an expensive hook
that injects a drug that produces complete
anesthesia as soon as the ﬁsh bites. While slowly
suffocating out of the water, the 5 billion pounds
of commercial ﬁsh harvested each year writhe in
distress.

Why so much more agitation about the
relatively few animals that are used in biomedical
experiments that produce knowledge that relieves
animal and human suffering? It can only mean
that we have failed miserably in our duty to teach
our students and the general public to understand
how exploring the unknown and making new
discoveries by research on animals often
unpredictably and often after many failures, leads
to knowledge that contributes to the relief of
human suffering.

To highlight the ethical issue, I could show
you pictures of some ””blue babies” who were
saved from suffering and death by an operation
that was developed by experiments on dogs and
could not even have been thought of without a
long chain of animal research. The same is true
of another child whose operation corrected a birth
defect in his intestine. I have pictures of a child
crippled by polio and of other children pitifully
conﬁned by polio to a life in iron lungs. The
vaccine that for pennies now prevents such
suffering and extremely expensive care could not
have been developed without research on animals.
It saved over 50,000 children from this dreadful
disease the ﬁrst year it was introduced.

If these were your children, would you want
the research that could save them to have been
stopped? Do you want to sentence some of your
children and grandchildren to suffering and death
by stopping the research that may save them?
Will you please think about this? As for me, I
believe that to prevent, cripple, or needlessly
complicate the research that can relieve animal
and human suffering is profoundly inhumane,
cruel, and immoral.

References

Comroe, J. J., & Dripps J. D. The Top Ten
Clinical Advances in Cardiovascular-
Pulmonary Medicine and Surgery, 1945-1975.
Final Report, January 31, 1977. Bethesda:
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Intitute,
1977.

Ince, L. P. Behavioral
Rehabilitation Medicine.
Charles C. Thomas, 1976.

M odiﬂcation in
Springﬁeld, IL:

Keen, W. W. Animal Experimentation and
Medical Progress. Boston: Houghton Mifflin,
1914.

Miller, N. E. Effects of learning on physical
symptoms produced by psychological stress.
In H. Selye (Ed.), Selye’s Guide to Stress
Research. New York: Van. 'Nostrand
Reinhold, 1980. Pp. 131-167.

Miller, N. E. Behavioral medicine: Symbiosis
between laboratory and clinic. Annual
Review of Psychology, 1983, 34, 1-31. (a)

 




Miller, N. E. Understanding the use of animals Sechzer, J. E. (Ed.), The Role of Animals in

in behavioral research: Some critical issues. Biomedical Research. Annals of the New York
In J. A. Sechzer (Ed.), The Role of Animals in Academy of Sciences, 1983, 406.
Biomedical Research. Annals of the New York . . .
Academy of Sciences, 1983, 406, 113-118. Swazey, J. P. Chlorpromazine in Psychiatry. A
(b) Study of Therapeutic Innovation. Cambridge,
MA: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Overholser, W. Has chlorpromazine inaugurated Press, 1974.
a new era in mental hospitals? Journal of
Clinical and Experimental Psychopathology, Thorndike, E. L. Animal intelligence: An
1956, 17, 197-201. experimental study of the associative
processes in animals. Psychological Review
Pomerleau, 0., & Brady, J. P. (Eds), Behavioral Monograph Supplement 2, No. 8, 1898.

Medicine: Theory and Practice. Baltimore:
Williams & Wilkens, 1979.

New Ofﬁcers of International

Primatological Society Elected

New ofﬁcers of the International President (Species and Habitat
Primatological Society were elected at the Xth Conservation)--Kenneth M. Green (U.S.A.).
Congress of the Society in Nairobi, Kenya, July Secretary for Membership Information-~Herman
22-27, to four-year terms, beginning January 1, Dienske (The Netherlands). Treasurer--W.
1985. They are as follows: President--John P. Richard Dukelow (U.S.A.). Secretary for
Hearn (United Kingdom). Secretary Africa-~A. Allo (Camaroons). Secretary for
General--Gisela Epple (Federal Republic of Asia--P. K. Seth (India). Secretary for
Germany). Vice President (Captive Care and Europe-~Annie Gautier-Hion (France). Secretary
Breeding)--James G. Else (Kenya). Vice for the Americas--Milton Thiago de Mello (Brazil).

* 3k *

Video Tape Available on Animals in Research

5 ‘ The California Biomedical Research Life” are the beneﬁts to humans and to animals
‘ Association (CBRA) has produced a video tape of biomedical research, examples of medical
entitled “A Question of Life” for use in problems now in urgent need of research, and
educational programs on the beneﬁts of standards for care and treatment of laboratory
biomedical research and the necessity of the animals. There are many shots of research
humane use of animals in biomedical research. animals being used in research, of patients, and
of research facilities.
. “A Question of Life” runs 14 minutes, and is
aimed at an intelligent lay audience. It can stand The video tape is available in three formatSI
alone as an educational tool, or it can be used as 3/4" commercial; 1/2" VHS; and 1/2" Beta. The

an introduction to a discussion on how and why

. h ' ' h' in . T0
animals are used in research. purc ase price Of $35 includes S 1pp g

order, mail payment or purchase order to:
Th . . “ . California Biomedical Research Association, 48
e major themes covered in A Question of Shattuck Square, Box 114, Berkeley, CA 94704.

 

10

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

How Radical Animal Activists Try to

Mislead Humane People1

D. Caroline Coile
Florida State University

Neal E. Miller
The Rockefeller University

To rally mass support for protest at the 1984
American Psychological Association’s Convention
in Toronto [see News Briefs this issue], a
publication of the group, Mobilization for Animals
(1984), has stated, “The tools of the experimental
psychologist are mutilation, castration, agony,
starvation, and insanity” (p. 3). They then went
on to make more speciﬁc accusations that
experimental psychologists were causing extreme
animal suffering. Because these were serious
accusations, a survey was conducted to determine
how true and typical they were of experimental
psychology. The survey covered every article (a
total of 608) appearing during the last 5 years
(1979 through 1983) in those journals published
by the American Psychological Association that
report animal research, namely, the Journal of
Experimental Psychology: Animal Behavior
Processes and the Journal of Comparative and
Physiological Psychology and its successors
Behavioral Neuroscience and the Journal of
Comparative Psychology.

The speciﬁc accusations (Mobilization for
Animals, 1984, p. 3) and the percentage of
articles in which such treatments and/or results
were reported were:

1. “Animals are given intense, repeated
electric shocks which they cannot escape, until
they lose the ability to even scream in pain any
longer”--0.0%. '

2. “They are deprived of food and water to
suffer and die slowly from hunger and
thirst”--0.0%.

 

First author’s address: Florida State
University, Tallahassee 32306.
1From the Comment section of American

Psychologist, 1984, 39, 700-701.

11

3. “They are put in total isolation chambers
until they are driven insane, or even die from
despair and terror”--0.0%.

4. “They are subjected to crushing forces
which smash their bones, and rupture their
internal organs”--0.0%.

5. “Their limbs are mutilated or amputated
to produce behavioral changes”--0.0%.

6. “They are the victims of extreme pain
and stress, inflicted upon them out of idle
curiosity, in nightmarish experiments designed to
make healthy animals psychotic”--0.0%.

In the exact form stated, none of the extreme
allegations were found to be true in any of the
608 articles. It might be argued that the
accusations were true but were not reported.
But, if the purposes and results were as alleged,
there would have been no point in not reporting
them. We can only conclude that if experiments
of the type described did occur, they were not
reported in APA journals over the last 5 years.
Such studies may have occurred and may have
been reported elsewhere or may have gone
unpublished. If so, they certainly were infrequent
and it is extremely misleading to imply that they
were typical of experimental psychology. 7

We do not claim that animals are never
caused to suffer in any behavidral experiments.
In other biomedical research it has been and is
necessary to cause some experimental animals to
suffer from conditions such as cancer, polio,
distemper, rabies, and AIDS in order to
understand such conditions and to develop
vaccines or therapies that relieve the suffering of
many more animals and people (Randall, 1983).
Similarly, in behavioral research it is necessary
to inflict some pain in order to learn how better to
control chronic pain, a condition that still causes
great suffering and is an economic burden

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

estimated at $50 billion a year (U.S. Department
of Health and Human Services, 1982). Recently,
behavioral research of this kind has resulted in
the discovery of both opiate and non opiate
pathways in the central nervous system that can
inhibit pain (Liebeskind & Paul, 1977). But such
research is not conducted out of “idle curiosity” as
alleged in item 6 above. Other experiments
involving inescapable shock (but not “until the
animals lose the ability to even scream in pain”)
were aimed at understanding mechanism believed
likely to be involved in human depression, a
condition that often causes its victims such
intense suffering that they are driven to suicide.
For young adults, suicide is the third leading
cause of death. The suicide of a child is a horrible
tragedy for the parents.

Actually, only 3.9% of the studies in our
sample (only 0.2% involving monkeys, dogs, or
cats) used inescapable shocks stronger than .001
of an ampere, a strength that most experimenters
can easily endure on their ﬁngers. Only 10.0%
(0.5% involving monkeys, dogs, or cats) used
electric shocks at all.

No animals were starved to death as was
alleged. No periods of food deprivation were
longer than 48 hr and only 0.6% were longer than
24 hr, the period most veterinarians recommend
for pets, that is, feeding once a day. None of the
procedures reduced the animals to below 70% of
their normal body weight when given unlimited
access to food, and only 3.6% of our sample
involved reductions below 80% (only 0.3%
involving mammals). However, unlimited access
to food without need for energetic foraging leads
to unhealthy obesity, as demonstrated by the fact
that deprivation levels similar to the greatest
used in our sample of experiments prolong life
(Harper, 1982; Ross, 1976).

.Even fewer studies employed water
deprivation. Only 0.7% of the studies in our
sample deprived animals for more than 24 hr,

and none for more than 48 hr. No animals died
of thirst.

The opening general statement of the radical
activists implied that castration is a typical tool of
the experimental psychologist. Our survey found
5.3% of the studies involved castration. However,
that procedure, described as altering or neutering,
is one of the beneficial services performed or

—---'- vvm 7W erv__,-.k_

12

recommended by most humane societies.

The fact that most of the studies (over 80%
of those involving shock or deprivation) in our
sample were supported by respected
organizations, such as the National Institute of
Health, National Science Foundation, and
National Institute of Drug Abuse, indicated that
they were not performed out of “idle” curiosity.
Anyone who has submitted a grant proposal to
these organizations knows that they do not fund
projects without explicitly stated purposes and
justifications, which are carefully evaluated. It is
not easy to get money for research; in fact only
about 25% of the studies submitted are funded.
By its very nature of exploring the unknown,
basic research must be evaluated for its scientiﬁc
soundness rather than for prospects for
immediate application. Often such research leads
to valuable applications that cannot be
anticipated. This was the case in some of the
behavioral research on animals that led to the
development of chlorpromazine, a drug that
contributed so much to relieving the horrible and
hopeless conditions in the back wards of large
mental hospitals (Miller, 1983; Swazey, 1974). It
is also true of other types of research. In a
monumental study of the 10 clinical advances in
cardiovascular and pulmonary medicine and
surgery rated by physicians as having most
benefited their patients, Comroe and Dripps
(1977) found that 41.6% of the 663 studies
essential for these advances were done by
scientists whose goal at that time was unrelated
to the later clinical advance. Reading the study
makes it clear that all of the 10 clinical advances
were dependent on knowledge gained by research
on animals. [See additional comments on this
study in the article by Miller (p. XX) in the
present issue of this Newsletter.]

The Mobilization for (1984)
statement continues:

Animals

If all the millions of dollars which are spent
annually on pointless psychology
experiments on animals were instead used to
fund treatment centers for abused children
and battered women, programs for alcoholics
and better facilities for victims of mental
illness, then there would be direct human
benefit from the use of those funds and this
is what we must insist should happen (13-3)-

 

 




 

 

Actually the annual cost of behavioral research
on animals by the National Institute of Mental
Health and the National Science Foundation is
only approximately .0002 of the cost for the care
of mental illness alone. Thus, shifting this
research money to care would not have a
noticeable effect on care but, if history is any
guide, would greatly retard further relief of such
illness (Swazey, 1974).

Nobody wants to see animals suffer
needlessly, nor do they want progress toward the
elimination of suffering in humans to be halted.
Therefore, it is essential to be totally honest in
the representation of facts concerning animal
welfare in research. At the turn of the century, a
Scottish clergyman, David Macdonald,
characterized the style of the leading radical
antivivisectionist of his day as “suggestio falsi”
and “suppressio veri,” that is, suggest the false
and suppress the true (in Paton, 1979).
Apparently, the same techniques are in use
today. By misleading humane people, the radical
animal activists are in fact diverting the energy
and funds of humane groups away from areas
where animal abuse is common (such as th
abandonment of 10 million pet dogs and cats
each year to die of starvation, disease, and road
accidents) in order to focus upon an area in which
it is rare.

References

Comroe, J. H., & Dripps, R. D. The top ten
clinical advances in cardiovascular pulmonary
medicine and surgery 1945-1975. Final
Report. Bethesda, MD: National Heart,
Lung, and Blood Institute, 1977.

Harper, A. E. Nutrition, aging, and longevity.
The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition,

1982, 36, 737-749.

Liebeskind, J. C., & Paul, L. A. Psychological

 

2Studies reported in the APA journals for
the last 5 years involved less than 200 dogs and
cats. Although an equal number may have been
used in studies reported in other journals and in
exploratory work not reported, the total certainly
is vastly less than the number of animals
abandoned.

13

and physiological mechanisms
Annual Review of Psychology,
41-60.

of pain.
1977, 28,

Miller, N. E. Understanding the use of animals
in behavioral research: Some critical issues.
Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences,
1983, 406, 113-118.

Mobilization for Animals. Direct Action Program
1984. Columbus, OH: Author, 1984.

Paton, W. D. M. Animal experiment and medical
research: A study in evolution. Forty-
seventh Stephen Paget Memorial Lecture.
Conquest, 1979, 169, 1-14.

Randall, W. C. Is medical research in jeopardy?
The Physiologist, 1983, 26, 73-77.

Ross, M. H. Nutrition and longevity in
experimental animals. In Wineck, M. (Ed.),
Nutrition. and aging. New York: Wiley &
Sons, 1976. Pp. 43-57.

Swazey, J. P. Chlorpromazine in psychiatry: A
study of therapeutic innovation. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press, 1974.

U. S. Department of Health and Human
Services. Chronic pain: Hope through
research. (NIH Publication No. 82-2406).
Washington, DC: U. S. Government Printing
Ofﬁce, 1982.

 




 

 

 

 

Tuberculosis--United States, 19831

In 1983, 23,846 cases of tuberculosis were
reported to CDC, for a rate of 10.2 cases per
100,000 population. Compared with 1982, this
represents a 6.6% decrease in the number of
cases reported and a decline of 7.3% in the rate.
Rates for the 50 states ranged from 23.1/ 100,000
in Hawaii to 1.3/100,000 in North Dakota. The
rate increased in 13 states, remained unchanged
in one, and decreased in 36.

The rate among persons living in 56 cities
with populations of 250,000 or more was
21.2/100,000—-more than twice the national rate.
Urban rates ranged from 58.4/ 100,000 in Miami,
Florida, to 25/100,000 in Toledo, Ohio. Eight
cities had rates at least three times the national
rate: Miami, Florida; Newark, New Jersey;
Atlanta, Georgia; San Francisco, California;
Tampa, Florida; Honolulu, Hawaii; Washington,
D.C.; and Oakland, California.

In 1983, 1,360 tuberculosis cases were
reported among children under 15 years of age,
including 818 cases among children less than 5 yr
of age; in 1982, there were 1,349 and 789 such
cases, respectively.

Final tuberculosis mortality data for 1981
show 1,937 deaths. Compared with the final
totals of 2,007 and 1.978 deaths in 1979 and
1980 and the 1982 provisional estimate of 1,980
deaths by the National Center for Health
Statistics, there was essentially no change in
tuberculosis mortality over the 4-yr period
1979-1982.--Reported by Division of Tuberculosis
Control, Center for Prevention Services, CDC.

CDC Editorial Note: From 1968 through
1978, the average annual decrease in tuberculosis
cases in the United States was 5.6%. From 1978
through 1981, when there was a large influx of
Southeast Asian refugees, the average annual

 

1From Morbidity and Mortality Weekly
Report (CDC), 1984, 33, 412-415.

LPN Editor’s Note: This article, while
pertaining to the incidence of tuberculosis in
humans in the United States, indicates the

continued potential threat to nonhuman primate
colonies.

14

decline was only 1.4%. A 6.8% decrease in the
number of cases in 1982 and the 6.6% decrease
in 1983 indicate the previous downward trend
has resumed.

Three factors may have contributed to the
decreased number of tuberculosis cases reported
in 1983: (1) There was an increase in the number
of states using the new individual case reporting
system, which requires more accurate verification
of cases before they are counted; (2) the number
of refugees arriving in the United States with
tuberculosis declined; and (3) the number of
indigenous tuberculosis cases may have actually
declined.

Despite the decline in reported cases in 1983,
tuberculosis persists as a public health problem.
Transmission of infection continues, as evidenced
by the continued occurrence and lack of decline of
disease in young children. Tuberculosis mortality
has not declined; moreover, in 1980, tuberculosis
was the leading cause of death among 38
notifiable diseases for which mortality data were
reported (CDC, 1983). The number of
tuberculosis deaths that year exceeded the
combined total of deaths for the other 37
notifiable diseases. It is estimated that more
than 10 million persons in this country are
infected with tubercle bacilli. They have a
lifelong risk of developing disease, which can be
minimized by giving preventive treatment.
Additional cases will occur in new residents of
this country who come from areas of the world
where tuberculosis infection rates are much
higher than in the United States. Unless
otherwise contraindicated, these persons should
receive a course of preventive therapy (ATS/CDC,
1983).

State and local health departments are
responsible for ensuring the control of
tuberculosis in the community. It is estimated
that 40,000 persons on health department
registers are currently under treatment or
medical supervision for tuberculosis and that each
year, approximately 200,000 persons exposed to
new cases must be examined. Many of these
persons are placed on preventive treatment.
Tuberculosis control has been complicated by the
€10ba1 emergence of organisms resistant to
antituberculous drugs (Kleeberg & BOShOffa

 

 




 

 

1980). Community outbreaks continue to occur in
the United States (CDC, 1983; Silverman, 1984).

References

CDC. Annual summary 1982: Reported morbidity
and mortality in the United States.
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, 1983,
31, 148.

American Thoracic Society/Centers for Disease
Control (ATS/CDC). Treatment of
tuberculosis and other mycobacterial
diseases. American Review of Respiratory
Diseases, 1983, 127, 790-796.

*3:

 

Kleeberg, H. H., & Boshoff, M. S. A world atlas
of initial drug resistance. Pretoria, South
Africa: Tuberculosis Research Institute of the
South African Medical Research Council,
1980.

CDC. Interstate outbreak of drug-resistant
tuberculosis involving children-—California,
Montana, Nevada, Utah. Morbidity and
Mortality Weekly Report, 1983, 32, 516-518.

Silverman, P. R. An outbreak of tuberculosis in
southern Delaware: The meaning of
surveillance and containment. Delaware
Medical Journal, 1984, 56, 156-158.

Research News: Inner Ear Transplant Research

Researchers at the University of Washington
(UW) began clinical tests in July of a new inner
ear transplant. The new implant will restore
some hearing to selected patients. The clinical
program follows more than eight years of NIH-
funded research by a team in the UW
Department of Otolaryngology and the UW
Regional Primate Research Center. The studies,
coordinated by Dr. Josef Miller, tested electrode
implants in the ears of rhesus monkeys to
measure hearing thresholds, range of hearing and
hearing discrimination abilities. Dr. Robert Dobie
will direct the new human trials, which will be
conducted on persons who have become deaf in
their adult years, because of the difficulty in
testing and rehabilitating patients who have been
deaf since birth.

Cochlear implants excite the 30,000 auditory
nerve cells by stimulating those cells with minute
electric currents. If researchers eventually can
predictably stimulate small groups of nerve cells,
then implanted patients will experience a greater
variety of rhythm, pitch and nuance of sound.

15

The electric current that flows through the
inner ear from an outside energy source may
increase nerve damage by causing bone growth.
The primate research helped to determine safe
limits of stimulation to the inner ear.

In March of 1984, Miller became director of
the Kresge Hearing Research Institute in Ann
Arbor, MI. Miller is currently evaluating various
strategies for implanting prostheses in patients
and encoding information with these prostheses.
Joint research will continue between the Kresge
Institute and the UW.

Primate research coordinated by Dr. Francis
Spelman of the Washington Primate Center will
be done in tandem with Dobie’s clinical trials.
The basic research is designed to discover the
effects of long term stimulation of the inner ear,
to find the first elements excited by electrical
stimulation and to . determine the optimum
location for the electrodes of the prosthesis.

 




 

 

 

Experimental Infection of Chimpanzees with

Lymphadenopathy-Associated Virus1

Evidence from two investigations indicates
that the retrovirus etiologically linked to acquired
immunodeﬁciency syndrome (AIDS) may infect
chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). In the first study,
investigators from CDC and Emory University’s
Yerkes Regional Primate Research Center,
Atlanta, Georgia, inoculated two chimpanzees
with lymphadenopathy-associated virus (LAV)
(Barre-Sinoussi et al., 1983), one of two prototype
retrovirus isolates etiologically associated with
AIDS (Gallo et al., 1984). Both animals were
virologically and serologically negative before
inoculation; both were injected simultaneously
with concentrated virus and autologous
lymphocytes that had been infected in vitro with
LAV. Both animals were immunostimulated
concomitantly by inoculation of diptheria-tetanus
toxoid and pneumococcal vaccine. One animal
received human lymphocytes as an additional
immunostimulant.

Six days after inoculation, a retrovirus
identiﬁed as LAV by reverse transcriptase assay,
direct immunofluorescence, p25 competitive
radioimmunoprecipitation, and electron
microscopy was identiﬁed from peripheral
lymphocytes of both animals. The virus was
isolated from both animals from six consecutive
lymphocyte specimens obtained every 2-4 wk.
The most recent specimens Were obtained more
than 4 mo after inoculation. Antibody to the
major core protein (p25) of LAV was first
detected 3 mo after inoculation and was again
present at 4 mo. In both animals, ﬁve
consecutive postinoculation T 4/T 8 ratio
determinations have shown an apparent
downward trend although values are significantly
below normal in only one. No clinical illness has
been detected in the animals, and physical
examinations have remained normal.

In the second study, investigators at the
National Institutes of Health (NIH) and

 

lFrom Morbidity and Mortality Weekly
Report (CDC), 1984, 33, 442-443.

See abstract of related Science article in
New Books and Articles section.

16

Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research
have found evidence of transmission of HTLV—III
to two chimpanzees receiving human plasma from
an individual with the lymphadenopathy
syndrome. Evidence for infection includes anti-
HTLV-III seroconversion, depression of T4/T8
ratios, and, in one animal, the development of
severe, prolonged lymphadenopathy coincident
with seroconversion.—- Reported by H. McClure,
DVM, B. Swenson, DVM, F. King, Ph.D., Yerkes
Regional Primate Research Center, Emory
University, Atlanta, Georgia; J-C Chermann,
Ph.D., F. Barre-Sinousi, Ph.D. L. Montagnier,
M.D., Institut Pasteur, Paris, France; J. Eichberg,
Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research,
San Antonio, Texas; C. Saxinger, R. Gallo,
National Cancer Institute; H. Alter, H. Masur, A.

M acher, Clinical Center, C. Lane, A. F auci,
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Heart, Lung, and Blood

Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland; Division of Viral Diseases, Division of
Host Factors, Center for Infectious Diseases, CDC.

CDC Editorial Note: Primate transmission
experiments have been under way at CDC and
NIH for some time. LAV and HTLV-III, as well
as human AIDS tissue, have been inoculated into
several species of primates, including marmosets,
rhesus monkeys, and chimpanzees. Except for
some lymphocyte changes (Gajdusek et al.,
(1984), no disease or infection has been
previously reported. The studies reported here
indicate that LAV/HTLV-III can be transmitted
to chimpanzees both by inoculating virus isolates
and human plasma. In some instances,
immunologic abnormalities and prolonged
lymphadenopathy have followed inoculation, but
opportunistic infections or tumors characteristic of
AIDS have not. developed. Transmission of
HTLV-III from lymphocyte-poor human plasma is
consistent with reports of AIDS among recipients
of plasma or anti-hemophilic concentrates made
from pooled plasma (Curran et al., 1984; Evatt et
al., 1984).

The virus isolated from the LAV-inoculated
chimpanzees was morphologically and
immunologically identical to LAV. Virus particles
were morphologically distinct from the Type D




retrovirus etiologically implicated in “simian Transmission experiments with human T-

AIDS,” a transmissible syndrome of macaques lymphotropic retroviruses and human AIDS
(Marx et al., 1984; Letvin et al., 1983). _ tissue. Lancet, 1984, 1, 1415-1416.

Long-term follow-up of the LAV and HTLV- Curran, J. W., Lawrence, D. N., Jaffe, H. W., et
III-infected Chimpanzees, as well as other al. Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
primates, is continuing. Careful examination of (AIDS) associated with transfusions. New '
the interaction between infection and host England Journal of Medicine, 1984, 310,
response in primates could clarify the 69-75.

pathogenesis of AIDS in humans.
Evatt, B. L., Ramsey, R. B., Lawrence, D. N.,

References Zyla, L. D., & Curran, J. W. Acquired
immunodeﬁciency syndrome in hemophilia
Barre-Sinoussi, F., Chermann, J. C., Rey, F., et patients. Annals of Internal Medicine, 1984,
al. Isolation of a T-lymphotropic retrovirus 100, 495-498.
from a patient at risk for acquired immune
deficiency syndrome (AIDS). Science, 1983, Marx, P. A. Maul, D. H., Osborn, K. G., et al.
220, 868-871. Simian AIDS: isolation of a type D
retrovirus and transmission of the disease.
Gallo, R. C., Salahuddin, S. Z., Popovic, M., et al. Science, 1984, 223, 1083-1086.

Frequent detection and isolation of cytopathic
retroviruses (HTLV-III) from patients with Letvin, N. L., Aldrich, W. R., King, N. W., et al.

AIDS and at risk for AIDS. Science, 1984, Experimental transmission of macaque AIDS
224, 500-503. by means of inoculation of macaque
lymphoma tissue. Lancet, 1983, 11,
Gajdusek, D. C., Amyx, H. L., Gibbs, C. J., et al. 599-602.
* * =|<

International Conference on Acquired

Immunodeﬁciency Syndrome

An International Conference on Acquired on screening and diagnostic tests for AIDS and on
Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) will be held the epidemiology, virology, immunology, clinical
April 15-17, 1985, at the World Congress Center, manifestations, and treatment of AIDS. Seating
Atlanta, Georgia, sponsored by CDC; the will be available for 1,800 participants. An
National Institutes of Health; the Food and Drug announcement of keynote speakers and a call for
Administration; the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and abstracts will be published later. To obtain
Mental Health Administration; the Health further information and future announcements,
Resources and Services Administration; and the contact: AIDS Conference, Building 1, Room
World Health Organization. The purpose of the 2047, Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta,
meeting is to review strategies for the prevention Georgia 30333.

and control of AIDS and to exchange information

17

 




 

 

 

Twin Stumptailed Monkeys Born in Laboratory

Allan M. Schrier and Morris L. Povar
Brown University

y""':!—

Twin stumptailed monkeys (M acaca
arctoides) were born August 12, 1984 in one of
our harem-type breeding pens in the Primate
Behavior Laboratory. We have not determined
the sex of the infants as yet. The breeding
program was recently described in an article in
this Newsletter (Schrier & Povar, 1983). The
mother is Kim, whom we described as one of the
more prolific females in our colony. She has now
given birth in ﬁve of the eight years that she has
been in the breeding pen. This is the ﬁrst pair of
twins out of a total of 48 births in our laboratory
since 1975.

We are aware of only two other published
reports of twin stumptailed monkeys. In
reviewing the incidence of twin births in
nonhuman primates, Wildt and Dukelow (1974)
cited a report by Hendrickx, Houston and
Kraemer (1968) of 1 pair of stumptailed twins in
82 births. Briiggerman and Grauwiler (1972)
reported 1 pair of twin stumptailed monkeys out
of 57 pregnancies. Taking these reports together
with our data, the incidence of twins in
stumptailed monkeys is 3 in 187 births (1.6%).
At that time, Windt and Dukelow concluded that,
on the basis of the available data, “rhesus
monkeys (0.5-1.0% twinning) or, more ideally,
stumptailed monkeys (1.2%) would represent
most closely the human incidence of multiple
births” (1974, p. 17)--i.e., 1 in 86 (1.2%).

However, while preparing this note, we
decided to call several laboratories in the U. S.
that we knew had breeding colonies of
stumptailed monkeys, which added considerably
to the total number of observations. The
Wisconsin Regional Primate Center reported no

.mée—

**

18

twins in about 50 births of stumptailed monkeys,
the California Regional Primate Center reported
no twins in approximately 200 births, and the
Milton S. Hershey Medical Center reported no
twins in approximately 500 births. If we add
these data to those given above, we get a total of
only 3 twins in 937 births of stumptailed
monkeys (0.32%), which is close to the low rate of
twinning reported for baboons (Windt & Dukelow,
1974). The experience at the California Center
with rhesus monkeys has been 5 sets of twins in
about 2,000 births (0.25%). So with larger Ns
available, it is beginning to appear that twinning
in general in Old World monkeys may be much
rarer than it is in humans.

References

Briiggermann & Grauwiler Breeding results from
an experimental colony of Macaca arctoides.
In E. I. Goldsmith and J. Moor-Jankowski
(Eds), [Medical Primatology 1972 (Part I).
Basel: Karger, 1972.

Hendrickx, A. G., Houston, M. L., & Kraemer, D.
C. Observations on twin baboon embryos
(Papio sp.). Anatomical Record, 1968, 160,
181-186.

Schrier, A. M., & Povar, M. L. Results of a
small-scale stumptailed monkey breeding
program in a laboratory. Laboratory Primate
Newsletter, 1983, 22[3], 1-4.

Wildt, D. E., & Dukelow, W. R. The nonhuman
primate as a model for human twinning.
Laboratory Primate Newsletter, 1974, 13[4],
15-18.

 

 




 

 

Field Station in Portugal

to Include Primate Research

Since 1979, the Biological Research Station
Quinta de 850 Pedro, located 8 km southwest of
Lisbon, has served visitors from several countries
in the conduct of investigations in a variety of
ﬁelds in terrestrial (non-marine) biology.
Opportunities particularly for work in physiology,
ecology, and behavior under seminatural
conditions combine here with a setting of scenic
beauty, in a mild and economically favorable
climate. Laboratories and living quarters are
available at low rates for visiting biologists and
students. The major emphasis has been on plant
physiology and insect behavior (orientation)
through a long-term cooperative project with the
Departments of Botany and Zoology at the

*3:

University of Wiilrzburg, West Germany.

It is now planned to expand the facilities to
include research in primate ethology and the
breeding of suitable primate species. Funds are
available for the building of special indoor and
large outdoor enclosures with natural vegetation.
Inquiries and requests for a brochure should be
addressed to the following (A nonprofit
organization): Institute for International
Cooperation in Education and Research, Ltd.
(IZBF), Karlstrasse 29, D-2000 HAMBURG 76,
Federal Republic of Germany (Phone (040) 22 10
68).

 

.19

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

News Briefs

Animal Liberation Group Strikes Again

According to the New York Times (August
12, 1984), activists struck a second time in July
at an animal laboratory at the University of
Pennsylvania. The raiders, who said they
belonged to the Animal Liberation Front, carried
off three cats, two dogs and eight pigeons at the
School of Veterinary Medicine. A month earlier
they had stolen videotapes and damaged
laboratory equipment in the School of Medicine.
A University of Pennsylvania spokesman
indicated that the cats were being used in studies
of breathing during sleep, with the aim of better
understanding infant crib deaths and adult sleep
apnea. One dog, which had undergone bone
repair with a steel plate, was being monitored for
osteoarthritis, a frequent complication with
humans, while the other dog was involved in a
study of ear canal infection, work that would
have beneﬁted other dogs. The pigeons were
engaged in a study of broken bones, with the
results of beneﬁt to all birds, according to the
spokesman.

Animal Use Protested in London

Demonstration

More than 3,000 animal rights supporters,
many wearing masks representing dogs, cats and
mice, held a “die-in” protest in London’s
Trafalgar Square. To draw attention to the plight
of animals used in laboratory experiments, a
protester fell to the ground once every six
seconds, symbolically “killed” by white-coated
fellow protesters posing as scientists. After one
hour, 600 protesters were sprawled at the foot of
Nelson’s Column in the central London square.
Demonstrators said that number matched the
number of laboratory animals killed every hour in
Britain.

Charles River Prize to Held

Dr. Joe R. Held was awarded the 7th
Charles River Prize (Charles River Foundation)
July 17, 1984 at the annual meeting of the

20

American Veterinary Medical Association
(AVMA). The award is given to a veterinarian
selected by the AVMA in recognition of
distinguished contribution to the ﬁeld of
laboratory animal medicine. As an assistant
surgeon general in the U. S. Public Health
Service, Dr. Held is responsible for many
intramural research programs at the National
Institutes of Health and is actively involved with
the care and use of research animals and related
issues within the biomedical community. He has
been serving as the Chairman of the Interagency
Primate Steering Committee since its inception.

MFA Cancels Toronto Demonstration

Mobilization for Animals (MFA) cancelled its
planned “massive” demonstration at the annual
meeting of the American Psychological
Association in Toronto on August 25 because a
Canadian organization was planning a competing
demonstration to be held nearby at the same
time. MFA encouraged instead demonstrations at
psychological laboratories in the United States.

Wisconsin Primate Laboratory Renamed in
Honor of Harlow

The Primate Laboratory of the Psychology
Department, University of Wisconsin, Madison,
was formally renamed in honor of the late
Professor Harry F. Harlow in a ceremony in
Madison, August 22, 1984. The ceremony was
attended by many former students and Primate
Laboratory colleagues of Harlow. A bronze
plaque memorializing Dr. Harlow will be placed
at the entrance to the laboratory. In addition, the
University of Wisconsin Foundation has
established the “Harry F. Harlow Fund” and is
accepting contributions and bequests from
interested alumni and friends, with the sole
purpose of the fund being to “aid the Primate
Laboratory in its teaching, research, and public
service roles.” Contributions or correspondence
should be addressed to the: University of
Wisconsin Foundation, Harry F. Harlow Fund,
702 Langdon St., Madison, WI 53706.

 

 

 




 

 

Managing Editor’s Lament

Managing the Newsletter is not an easy task,

And much of the time I must wear a mask.

A mask of knowledge, when nothing makes sense,

A mask of calmness, when others are tense.

A mask of know-how when the computer keys stick,

And the typewriter greets you with a very odd click.

A mask of ignorance when calls come for others,

And you answer quite calmly, “He’s gone to his brother’s.”
A mask of the scholar when reading the names

Of monkeys, in Latin, and subscribers in Spain.

A mask of panic as the deadline draws near,

And your stomach is sick, and your heart ﬁlled with fear.
Has the printer passed on? He doesn’t answer the phone.
Is the Newsletter ready? Will it ever leave home?

Are the names spelled correctly? Are the zip codes afﬁxed?
Have the words all been split at the proper preﬁx?

Is the ink nice and dark? Are the pages cut sharp?

Is anything wrong upon which they can harp?

The panic is over, the next mask comes out,

The mask of joy. I could dance. I could shout.

The Newsletter is here. It looks just divine.

I’ll just take a rest. ‘Till the very next time.

--Helen J. Shuman

21

 




 

 

. » A,_ . ”1.11 .m.-.w._-;_.,~.1.._~-__.__;,._... _._.A.....r7:_,.ma..3___mw ‘ 7- ,
M-M. “at” 7-....HWW \. ...- .7- , 7.. “m , . g ,

 

Primate Supply Shrinks

The increasing difficulty of importing
research primates is forcing European countries
to establish breeding colonies of commonly used
species. Malaysia recently became the latest of a
series of countries to ban the export of primates
for research, citing as its principal reason the
discovery that monkeys exported to the United
States were being used for biochemical and
nuclear weapons research. There were also
worries over the size of the remaining populations
in the wild. '

Military research accounts for about 15 per
cent of the 20,000 primates used each year in the
United States and about. 12 per cent of the 3,000
used in Britain; the great majority are used for
testing vaccines. But 12 countries have so far
acted to prevent the export of their primates, for
various reasons, and if Indonesia and the
Philippines were to follow suit, prices would rise
drastically.

Attempts to establish breeding colonies in the
countries of use have not often been economically
viable, producing (for example) rhesus mokeys at
a cost of around £ 1,000--two to three times the
cost of an animal caught in the wild. But the
governments of West Germany and Switzerland
have been persuaded of the need to establish
national breeding colonies for primates, and in
Britain the Medical Research Council is
encouraging a switch from Old World to New

**

World monkeys, which it breeds itself.

Malaysia, which exported between 2,000 and
3,000 macaques a year, was not a major supplier
and its ban is not expected to lead to acute
shortages. But the decision by India to ban the
export. of rhesus monkeys in 1978 led to a switch
towards the use of other macaques, and future
political moves could lead to further changes in
the species used. While the wild populations of
macaques in Indonesia and the Philippines are
not yet under serious threat, some in the primate
business are realizing that the supply will not last
for ever.

Mr. Keith Hobbs of Intersimian Ltd. is one
such person. Hobbs says he left the Medical
Research Council in frustration that the Council
would not heed his advice to establish a breeding
colony to meet Britain’s primate needs. His
company, through an organization called
SICONBREC, is now building up a breeding
colony of macaques in the Philippines. Hobbs
stresses that the high rates of loss in transport
that were common in the past have now been
much improved. His aim is to build up a breeding
colony of around 1,000 females-~which would go a
long way towards meeting Britain’s needs. His
price for a fully conditioned Macaca fascicularis:
just £200.--Tim Beardsley [from “News” section,
Nature, 1984, 308, 304”.

New Primatology Series Announced by SUNY Press

The State University of New York Press
announces a new series of books in Primatology,
under the editorship of Emil W. Menzel, Jr.
(Department of Psychology, State University of
New York at Stony Brook) and Randall Susman
(Department of Anatomical Sciences, State
University of New York at Stony Brook).

22

 

~—~‘?""—‘—v . V‘f—. ' "

The series will cover all aspects of
primatology, including behavior, morphology, and
evolution. Authors of book-length manuscripts
are invited to submit descriptions of their
projects, to gether with a brief curriculum vitae,
to L. Kay Richardson, SUNY Press, State
University Plaza, Albany, New York 12246.

 




 

Recent Books and Articles

(Addresses are those of ﬁrst authors)

Books

Perspectives in Primate Biology. P. K. Seth (Ed.).
New Delhi: Today and Tomorrow’s Printers and
Publishers, 1983. 225 pp. (Rupees: 345.
Approx. $69]

Original papers dealing with communication
patterns in nonhuman primates as they occur in
different environments; papers also present data
on eco-management and conservation of the free
ranging monkeys vis-a-vis correlates in their
behavior and social development. Contents:
SECTION I - SOCIOBIOLOGY: Social afﬁnities
in the Riverbanks howler monkeys, by M. Neville;
Adaptive and nonadaptive classes of infanticide,
by S. B. Hrdy; Patterns of territorial vocalizations
in the pileated gibbon, by S. Srikosarmatara, &
W. Brockelman; Spatial arrangements of
baboons in moving progressions, by R. J. Rhine,
H. F. Quick IV, R. Stillwell-Barnes, B. J.
Westlung, & H. D. Westlung; Types of social
organization among prosimian and platyrrhine
primates, by K. Richarz; Sociobiology of free
ranging rhesus monkeys, by P. K. Seth, S. Seth,
& A. K. Shukla; Estrus and mating behavior in
the rhesus monkeys, by D. G. Lindburg;
Olfactory communication in the lesser mouse
lemur (Microcebus murinus), by A. R. Glatston;
Infant snatching behavior in the rhesus
macaques, by P. R. tha; Field experiments and
observations on rhesus and bonnet monkeys: A
case for primate sociobiology, by Mewa Singh &
R. S. Pirta; Birth seasonality in Cercopithecus
aethiops, by M. Kavanagh; The great call of
Hylobates concolor Hainanus: Comparison with
the homologous emission of H. concolor Gabrielle

 

In many cases, the original source of
reference in this section has been the Current
Primate References prepared by The Primate
Information Center, Regional Primate Research
Center SJ ~50, University of Washington, Seattle,
WA 98195. Because of this excellent source of
references, the present section is devoted
Primarily to presentation of abstracts of articles
0f practical or of general interest. In most cases,
abstracts are those of the authors.

23

and H. concolor Leucogenys, by C. Demars, C.
Berthomeier, & M. Goustard; Infant cannabalism
in chimpanzees, by U. Kitahara-Fris'ch, & K.
Norikoshi. SECTION II - NEUROBIOLOGY. Is
there a cerebral hemispheric specialisation in
nonhuman primates?, by B Preilowski;
Morphological cerebral asymmetries in primates,
by M. J. LeMay, & N. Geschwind; Shdrt term
periodicities of motor patterns in monkey
behaviour, by D. Todl; Sleep in two Lemuridae
obtained by telemetry, by E. Balzamo, G.
Vullion-Casicuttold, J. J. Peter, & J. Bert.
SECTION III - ONTOGENY, GENETICS AND
EVOLUTION. Longitudinal study of the physical
development of hand-reared common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), by J. Kuster; Chromosomal
homology in M acaca mulatta, Papio papio and
man, by P. K. Seth, M. B. Saxena, & S. Seth;
The problem of hominid bipedalism, R. H. Tuttle,
& G. W. Cortright; Some important trends in
the process of hominization, by V. Vanc‘ata, & V.
Privratsky; Genetic variations in primates: Red
cell enzymes and serum proteins in rhesus
monkeys, baboons and langurs, by S. Seth, & V.
P. Dixit. SECTION IV - ECOLOGY AND
CONSERVATION. Food availability, diet and
ranging behaviour in Tana River red colobus
(Colobus badius Ruformitratus), by C. W. Marsh;

.Rhesus monkeys: Effect of habitat structure,

human contact and religious beliefs on population
size, by J. R. Oppenheimer; A population survey
of forest dwelling rhesus monkeys in north India,
by P. Dolhinow, & D. G. Lindburg; Ecological
considerations important in the interpretation of
census data on free ranging rhesus monkeys in
Nepal, by J. Tea; Status and conservation of
rhesus populations in India, by C. H. Southwick,
& M. F. Siddique.

Female Primates: Studies by Women
Primatologists. (Monographs in Primatology, Vol.
4). Meredith F. Small (Ed.). New York: Liss,
1984. 258 pp. [Price: $58]

The volume is organized from the’ following
perspective: “When scientists ﬁrst decided to
study the social organization of monkeys and apes
in their natural habitats....it was widely assumed
that males determined the social structure of the
group. Missing from most of the early studies
was any consideration of the activities of
females.” In an attempt to correct this, data on a

 




 

 

 

 

 

wide variety of female primates is presented.
The volume also emphasizes the contributions of
female primatologists to the field.

SECTION I. MOTHERS, INFANTS, AND
ADOLESCENTS. Introduction, by T. E. Rowell;
Variation in mother-infant relationships:
Traditional and nontraditiOnal factors, by C. M.
Berman; Langur monkey females and infants:
The female’s point of view, by P. Dolhinow, & N.
Krusko; Biparental care in Aotus trivirgatus and
Callicebus moloch, by P. C. Wright; Reproductive
behavior of adolescent female baboons (Papio
anubis) in Kenya, by L. M. Scott. SECTION II.
FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE STRATEGIES.
Introduction, by S. B. Hrdy; Female reproductive
success in a group of free-ranging howling
monkeys (Alouatta. palliata) in Costa Rica, by M.
R. Clarke, & K. E. Glander; Competition among
female vervet monkeys, by P. L. Whitten;
Japanese macaque female sexual behavior: A
comparison of Arashiyama East and West, by L.
D. Wolfe; Emigration by female red howler
monkeys and the case for female competition, by
C. M. Crockett; Life history patterns of female
patas monkeys, by J. Chism, T. Rowell, & D.
Olson. SECTION III. PATTERNS OF FEMALE
BEHAVIOR. Introduction, by N. H. Bishop; The
puzzle of female feeding priority, by A. Jolly;
Adult female sociality among wild orangutans at
Tanjung Puting Reserve, by B. M. F. Galdikas;
Rhesus monkey aggression and grooming social
dynamics, by J. Teas; Aging and reproductive
success in female Macaca mulatta, by M. F.
Small.

0f M ice, Models, and Men: A Critical Evaluation of
Animal Research. Andrew N. Rowen. New York:
State University of New York Press, 1984. 323
pp. [Price: Paper--$12.95. Cloth--$34.50]
Contents: 1. Introduction. I. THE
BACKGROUND. 2. What is biomedical science?
3. Attitudes and assumptions. 4. Historical
notes on animal research and antivivisection. 5.
Laboratory animal ecology: The numbers puzzle.
6. Pain and suffering in laboratory animals. II.
THE ISSUES. 7. The use of animals in
education: A failure to deal with contradictory
values. 8. Primate research: Monkey puzzle or
creative science. -9. Animal behavior and
psychology research. 10. The “Pound” animal
battle. 11. Animal research: An animal welfare
case ﬁle. 12. A case for the defense. III.
TOXICITY TESTING IN SAFETY
EVALUATION. 13. Toxicology testing and the

 

 

 

14. The LD50 test.

use of laboratory animals.
15. The Draize test. 16. Chronic toxicity tests.
17. Toxicity testing: Proposals from an animal

welfare perspective. IV. THE MORAL
QUESTION, ALTERNATIVES, AND
SUGGESTIONS. 18. The moral status of

laboratory animals. 19. Alternatives: A meeting
ground for science and animal welfare. 20.
Suggestions for the future.

Primate Paternalism. David M. Taub (Ed.). New
York: Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1984. 441 pp.
[Price: $44.00]

One of the goals of this volume is to provide
quantitative data about nonhuman-primate adult
male interactions with infants, a type of data
largely lacking in the existing literature,
according to the volume editor.‘ Another goal is
the integration of such interactions into a
framework of current evolutionary theory. The
final chapters provide an overall review and
literature resource on the occurrence of male-

infant interactions. Contents: EMPIRICAL
STUDIES. 1. Father-offspring relationships in
laboratory families of saddle-back tamarins

(Saguinus fuscicollis), by M. S. Cebul, & G.
Epple. 2. Male caretaking behavior among wild
Barbary macaques (Macaca sylvanus), by D. M.
Taub. 3. Male-infant interactions among free-
ranging stumptail macaques, by A. Estrada. 4.
Adult male-immature interactions in captive
stumptail macaques (Macaca arctoides), by E. O.
Smith, & P. G. Peffer-Smith. 5. Free-living
rhesus monkeys: Adult male interactions with
infants and juveniles, by S. H. Vessey, & D. B.
Meikle. 6. Social relations of males and infants
in a troop of Japanese monkeys: A consideration
of causal mechanisms, by H. Gouzoules. 7. Why
males use infants, by S. C. Strum. 8. Triadic
interactions among male and infant chacma
baboons, by C. Busse. 9. Ontogeny of infant-
adult male relationships during the ﬁrst year of
life for yellow baboons (Papio cynocephalus), by
D. M. Stein. 10. Adult male-infant interactions
in the chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes), D. Davis.
THEORETICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 11. The
evolution of male parental investment: Effects of
genetic relatedness and feeding ecology on the
allocation of reproductive effort, by J. A. Kurland,
& S. J. C. Gaulin. 12. Significance of paternal

investment by primates to the evolution of male-
female associations, by W. J. Hamilton, III. 13.
The evolutionary role of socio-ecological factors in
the development of paternal care in the New

 

 




 

World family Callitrichidae, by A. G. Pook.
REVIEWS. 14. Interactions between adult
males and infants in prosimians and New World
monkeys, by J. L. Vogt. 15. Adult male-infant
interactions in Old World monkeys and apes, by
D. M. Taub, & W. K. Redican. 16.
Observational studies of father-child relationships
in humans, by M. E. Lamb.

Infanticide: Comparative and Evolutionary
Perspectives. Glenn Hausfater and Sarah Blaffer
Hrdy (Eds). New York: Aldine, 1984. 598 pp.
[Price: $34.95]

Contents: Preface. Comparative and
evolutionary perspectives on infanticide:
Introduction and overview, by S. B. Hrdy, & G.
Hausfater. I. BACKGROUND AND
TAXONOMIC REVIEWS. 1. Infanticide,
siblicide, and avian nestline mortality, by D. W.
Mock. 2. Infanticide in carnivores, by C. Packer,
& A. E. Pusey. 3. Cannibalism of early life
stages in fishes, by W. J. Dominey, & L. S.
Blumer. 4. The influence of conspeciﬁcs on egg
and larval mortality in amphibians, by M. P.
Simon. 5. Intraspecific predation and “infant
killing” among invertebrates, by G. A. Polis. 6.
Mammalian reproduction: Constraints on the
evolution of infanticide, by V. D. Hayssen. 7.
The evolutionary ecology of sex allocation: A
primer, by E. L. Charnov. II. INFANTICIDE IN
NONHUMAN PRIMATES: A TOPIC OF
CONTINUING DEBATE. Infanticide in
nonhuman primates: An introduction and
perspective, by G. Hausfater. 8. Infanticide by
adult males in three primate species of Kibale
Forest, Uganda: A test of hypotheses, by L.
Leland, T. T. Struhsaker, & T. M. Butynski. 9.
Infanticide in red howler monkeys (Alouatta
seniculus), by C. M. Crockett, & R. Sekulic. 10.
Infanticide in two populations of Savanna
baboons, by D. A. Collins, C. D. Busse, & J.
Goodall. 11. Infanticide in mountain gorillas
(Gorilla gorilla beringei) with comparative notes
on chimpanzees, by D. Fossey. 12. Reproductive
parameters, adult-male replacements, and
infanticide among free-ranging langurs (PreSbytiS
entellus) at Jodhpur (Rajasthan), India, by C.
V0891, & H. Loch. 13. Infanticide in langurs:
Strategies, counterstrategies, and parameter
values, by G. Hausfater. 14. Infant killing and
male reproductive strategies in langurs (Presbytis
entellus), by J. Boggess. 15. Proximate factors
of infanticide among langurs at Dharwar: A reply
to Boggess, by Y. Sugiyama. 16. Assumptions

25

ANIMAL

and evidence regarding the sexual selection
hypothesis: A reply to Boggess, by S. B. Hrdy.
III. INFANTICIDE IN RODENTS: QUESTIONS
OF PROXIMATE AND ULTIMATE
CAUSATION. Infanticidal behavior in male and
female rodents: Sectional introduction and
directions for future research, by J. B. Labov.
17. Causes and consequences on infanticide in
populations of rodents, by R. J. Brooks. 18.
Infanticide and the evolution of pregnancy block
in rodents, by U. W. Huck. 19. Infanticide by
male and female mongolian gerbils: Ontogeny,
causation, and function, by R. W. Elwood, & M.
C. Ostermeyer. 20. Psychobiological
determinants underlying infanticide in mice, by B.
Svare, J. Broida, C. Kinsley, & M. Mann. 21.
Proximate and ultimate causes of infanticide and
parental behavior in male house mice, by F. S.
vom Saal. IV. INFANTICIDE IN HUMANS:
ETHNOGRAPHY, DEMOGRAPHY,
SOCIOBIOLOGY, AND HISTORY. Concepts
and classiﬁcation in the study of human
infanticide: Sectional introduction and some
cautionary notes, by M. Dickemann. 22.
Infanticide in human populations: Societal and
individual concerns, by S. C. M. Scrimshaw. 23.
Deferred infanticide: Excess female mortality
during childhood, by S. R. Johansson. 24. A
sociobiological analysis of human infanticide, by
M. Daly, & M. Wilson. 25. Ayoreo infanticide:
A case study, by P. E. Bugos, Jr., & L. M.
McCarthy.

Scientiﬁc Perspectives on Animal Welfare. W. Jean
Dodds and Barbara Orlans (Eds). New York:
Academic Press, 1982. 131 pp. [Price: $16.]
Proceedings of the First Conference on
Scientific Perspectives on Animal Welfare, held
Nov. 11-13, 1981, in Chevy Chase, MD under the
sponsorship of the Scientists Center for Animal
Welfare. Contents: OVERVIEW. Developments
in the history of the use of animals in medical
research, by F. M. Loew; Toward reﬁnement,
replacement, and reduction in the care and use of
laboratory animals, by T. E. Malone. SECTION
I. INVESTIGATOR RESPONSIBILITIES IN
EXPERIMENTATION. . The
investigator’s responsibilities in research using
animals, by F. W. L. Kerr; Animal
experimentation and the scientist, by M. E.
Weksler; Investigator responsibilities in animal
experimentation, by P. M. Adams; Summary of
workshop on investigator responsibilities, by H.
C. Rowsell. SECTION II. INSTITUTIONAL

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

RESPONSIBILITIES IN ANIMAL
EXPERIMENTATION. Responsibilities of
institutions for the welfare of experimental
animals, by H. J. Baker, J. R. Lindsey, & C. A.
Da Rif; Swedish law on laboratory animals, by
K. J. Obrink; Institutional responsibilities: The
committee’s role, by J. G. Fox; Summary of
workshop on institutional responsibilities, by R.
C. Simmonds. SECTION III. FUNDING
AGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES IN ANIMAL
EXPERIMENTATION. Responsibilities of
funding agencies for animal experimentation, by
C. E. Eyzaguirre; Responsibility of funding
agencies: Central or local control?, by D. J.
Ramsay, & J. S. Spinelli; Funding agency
responsibilities in animal experimentation, by K.
Kraner; Summary of workshop on funding
agency responsibilities, by F. B. Orlans.
SECTION IV. EDITORIAL
RESPONSIBILITIES IN ANIMAL
EXPERIMENTATION. Editorial responsibilities
in animal research, by F. B. Golley; Editorial
policy for animal experimentation, by G. J.
Thomas; Editorial responsibilities in the care and
management of animals used in research, by R.
M. Berne; Summary of workshop on editorial
responsibilities, by M. W. Fox. SECTION V.
PUBLIC POLICY AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
The responsibility of scientists in determination of
public policy for the use of animals in biomedical
research, by H. O. Halvorson; Summary of
recommendations on animal experimentation.

Bibliographies

Review articles on the neural basis of learning and
behavior in nonhuman primates: A bibliography.
Williams, J. B. Seattle: Primate Information
Center, 1983. 9 pp. [Price: $6.00 ($5.00
prepaid). Send order to Primate Information
Center, Regional Primate Research Center SJ -50,
University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195]

Magazines, Newsletters, Reports.

REP: ANNUAL REPORT 1983. Rijswick. The
Netherlands: Organization for Health Research
. TNO, 1984.

This is the annual report of the REP, which
stands for the Radiobiological Institute TNO,
Institute for Experimental Gerontology TNO, and
Primate Center TNO, Rijswijk Z.H., The

26

 

Netherlands. Of the many short notes describing
the accomplishments of the organization, the
following are concerned with primates:
IMMUNOLOGY AND TRANSPLANTATION
BIOLOGY. The use of monoclonal antibodies
speciﬁc for T-cell subsets as immunosuppressive
agents in rhesus monkeys, by M. Jonker, P.
Neuhaus, & G. Goldstein; Induction of
nonresponsiveness to murine monoclonal ‘
antibodies in rhesus monkeys, by F.J. M. Nooij,
& R. van Lambalgen; Lymphocyte subpopulations
in acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis
in rhesus monkeys, by van Lambalgen, C.
Meyran, C. Zurcher, & M. Jonker.
EXPERIMENTAL HAEMATOLOGY.
Assessment of haemopoietic stem cells toxicity of
monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies against
human T lymphocytes in rhesus monkeys, by W.
R. Gerritsen, G. van Meurs, M. Jonker, & G.
Wagemaker. ETHOLOGY. Effects of neuroleptic
treatment effects on abnormal behaviour of
rhesus monkeys, by C. Goosen, L. G. Ribbens, &
K. J. van den Berg.

Primate Eye 22 (Suppl.): 1-17, 1984. (Primate
Society of Great Britain)

Summary of current primate ﬁeld studies.
Chivers, D. J. (Sub-dept of Veterinary Anatomy,
Univ. of Cambridge, Tennis Court Rd., Cambridge
CB2 1QS, England)

Research Resources Reporter, 1984, 8[6].
(Published by the Research Resources
Information Center for the Division of Research
Resources, NIH)

This issue includes an article by G. Freiherr
entitled “Fertilization of monkeys to allow testing
of human birth defects theory.” It summarizes
work at the University of Wisconsin Regional
Primate Research Center involving in vitro
fertilization of rhesus monkeys. Among other
things, the procedure, when fully developed, will
allow the testing of the hypothesis that many
birth defects are due to fertilization of ova that
have passed their optimal period of activity.

Lab Animal, 1984, 13[4]. (United Business
Publications)

One of the feature articles in this issue
includes two panel discussions held at a press
seminar conducted by the Foundation for
Biomedical Research in cooperation with the
Scientists Institute for Public Information. The
purpose of the seminar was to provide

 

 




 

information to help media interpret the public
controversy over use of animals in biomedical
research. One of the panel discussions was on
“How Should the Biomedical Research
Community Respond to the Animal Rights
Movement?” The other panel discussion was on
“Can the Number of Research Animals be
Reduced?” The participants were Drs. Myron
Arlen, Robert Barker, Donald S. Fredrickson,
Andrew N. Rowan, James B. Wyngaarden, and
Mr. Fred Jerome.

Disease

Lymphoma in macaques: Association with virus
of human T lymphotrophic family. Homma, T.,
Kanki, P. J., King, N. W., Jr., Hunt, R. D.,
O’Connell, M. J., Letvin, N. L., Daniel, M. D.,
Desrosiers, R. C., Yang, C. S., & Essex, M.
(Dept. of Cancer Biol., Harvard Sch. of Public
Hlth., Boston, MA 02115) Science, 1984, 225,
716-718.

Human T-cell leukemia virus has been
linked with adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma
(ATLL), a tumor of mature T-cells that occurs at
elevated rates in southwestern Japan and in the
Caribbean Basin. Human T-cell leukemia virus
(HTLV) or a closely related virus, has also been
found in varying proportions of healthy
individuals of several species of Old World
monkeys. In the present study, conducted with
macaques from Taiwan and the New England
Regional Primate Research Center, antibodies to
membrane antigens of HTLV-infected cells
(HTLV-MA) were found in 11 of 13 macaques
with malignant lymmphoma or
1ymphoproliferative disease but in only 7 of 95
healthy macaques. This indicates that antibodies
to HTLV are signiﬁcantly associated with the
development of naturally occurring lymphoid
neoplasms in at least some species of nonhuman
primates.

The Schirmer tear test in rhesus monkeys
(Macaca mulatta). Jaax, G. P., Graham, R. R., &
Rozmiarek, H. (US Army Medical Res. Inst. of
Inf. Dis., Frederick, MD 21701) Laboratory
Animal Science, 1984, 34, 293-294.

A clinical case of keratoconjunctivitis sicca
prompted a study to determine normal values for
the Schirmer tear test in rhesus monkeys.
Normal values for rhesus monkeys were
calculated to be 6 to 24 mm wetting (mean =

27

15.1) and it was determined that neither sex nor
ketamine had a statistically signiﬁcant effect on
these values.

Malignant lymphoma and Hodgkin’s disease in
baboons (Papio sp.). Gleiser, C. A., Carey, K. D.,
& Heberling, R.. L. (Dept. of Lab. Anim. Med.,
Southwest Found. for Biomed. Res., PO Box
28147, San Antonio, TX 78234) Laboratory
Animal Science, 1984, 34, 286-289.

Four cases of spontaneous malignant
lymmphoma and one of Hodgkin’s lymphoma in
baboons at the Southwest Foundation for
Biomedical Research were studied and described.
These cases were in animals of both sexes that
varied in age from 6 to 25 years, and were in
residence at the Foundation from 2 to 24 years,
during which, time there was no known exposure
to carcinogenetic agents. Attempts to isolate an
etiological viral agent or demonstrate viral
particles in lymphoid tissue were unsuccessful.

Simian varcella infection in the African green
monkey (Cercopithecus aethiops). Lehner, N. D.
M., Bullock, B. C., & Jones, N. D. (Bowman Gray
Sch. of Med. of Wake Forest Univ., Winston-
Salem, NC 27103) Laboratory Animal Science,
1984, 34, 281-285.

A severe and highly fatal disease occurred in
African green monkeys. The disease was marked
by an extensive maculo-vesicular rash. In fatal
cases, multifocal necrosis and hemorrhage were
found characteristically in many organs and
tissues. New cases of the disease occurred over a
39-day period. Nine of 49 exposed African green
monkeys were affected and 5 of the 9 died. Four
cynomolgus (Macaca fascicularis) and 31
stumptailed monkeys (Macaca arctoides) which
were exposed were not affected. Delta
Herpesvirus was isolated from affected African
green monkeys. Stumptailed monkeys housed in
association with the African green monkeys, as
well as those housed elsewhere, had signiﬁcant
serum concentrations of neutralizing antibodies to

this agent.

Clinical features of simian acquired
immunodeﬁciency syndrome (SAIDS) ‘ in rhesus
monkeys. Henrickson, R. V., Maul, D. H.,
Lerche, N. W., Osborn, K. G., Lowenstine, L. J .,
Prahalada, S., Sever, J. L., Madden, D. L., &
Gardner, M. B. (California Prim. Res. Ctr., Univ.
of Calif, Davis, CA 95616) Laboratory Animal
Science, 1984, 34, 140-145.

 




 

 

 

A syndrome of acquired immunodeﬁciency
has been identiﬁed in a group of rhesus monkeys
which died at the California Primate Research
Center. Clinical evaluation of these animals
revealed that 50% or more had
lymphadenopathy, weight loss, and diarrhea. At
least 30% had splenomegaly, fever, cutaneous
abscesses and/or arthritis/myositis. Two animals
had ﬁbrosarcomas. Anemia was seen in 19
animals, lymphopenia in 14, granulocytopenia in
4 and thrombocytopenia in 3. Hepatitis was
diagnosed histopathologically in 13.
Electrophoresis revealed hypoproteinemia,
hypoalbuminemia and hypogammaglobulinemia.
Numerous bacterial, protozoa], and viral agents
were identiﬁed including cytomegalovirus and
leukocyte-associated herpesvirus. Pathologic
lesions included severe post-reactive depletion of
lymphocytes in germinal centers and paracortical
regions of lymph nodes. Clinical and pathologic
changes indicate an acquired immunodeﬁciency
syndrome which has some similarities to AIDS in
humans. This disease in monkeys may provide a
model for studying that disease.

Epidemiologic aspects of an outbreak of
immunodeﬁciency in rhesus monkeys (Macaca
mulatta). Lerche, N. W., Henrickson, R. V.,
Maul, D. H., & Gardner, M. B. (address same as
in previous reference). Laboratory Animal
Science, 1984, 34, 146-140.
Since August 25, 1981,
simian acquired

acquired

an outbreak of
immunodeﬁciency syndrome
(SAIDS) has been recognized in a single outdoor
corral housing 77 rhesus monkeys over a
16-month period. The etiology of this syndrome
is unknown but epidemiologic evidence suggests
an infectious agent. Thirty-two cases of SAIDS
have been identiﬁed (31 female, 1 male), and 27
of these animals have died (case fatality rate =
84%). Three of these deaths occurred among 13
infants born in the corral. All 27 deaths were
females. For animals in the original cohort, sex
was not a statistically signiﬁcant risk factor. For
animals born in the corral, females were at
greater risk. SAIDS mortality rates were highest
for animals entering the corral at less than 30
months of age and for animals born into the cage.
The mortality rate was lowest for animals
entering the corral at greater than 30 months of
age. No significant associations were found for
the factors weaning history, cage-move history
parentage, generation, and medical history,
includlng history of bite-wound trauma. Nine of

a. ... T _. ._ . macr ”1.0,“..7‘

28

the original 64 animals entering the corral on
August 25, 1981, were previously associated with
a group of 110 rhesus monkeys occupying this
same corral from September 1976 to August
1981. Though less dramatic, a similar pattern of
morbidity and high mortality was recognized
retrospectively in this group. The current
outbreak would appear to be an extension of this
earlier protracted epidemic.

Louse infestations of tree shrews (Tupai glis).

Durden, L. A., & DeBruyn, E. J. (Dept. of
Anatomy, Vanderbilt Univ. Sch. of Med.,
Nashville, TN 37232.) Laboratory Animal

Science, 1984, 34, 188—190.

Nine adult tree shrews, recently imported
from West Malaysia were visually examined for
ectoparasites while under general anesthesia.
Three shrews were infested by the sucking louse,
Sathrax dams, and 6 shrews had louse ova
belonging to this species; 2 shrews had neither
lice nor ova. A total of 20 adult female, 10 adult
male, and 3 third instar nymphal lice were
collected. Lice were located on the head, flanks,
and dorsal body of shrews while ova were
recorded mainly from the anterior flanks but also
from some adjacent host sites. The tree shrews
appeared to tolerate the lice well although louse
vector capacity was not assessed. The last date
that lice were recorded from shrews was 22 clayS
after colony set-up, and the last date on which
seemingly viable ova were recorded was 64 days
after set-up showing that the infestations were
ultimately lost.

Intestinal parasites of the free-ranging Cayo
Santiago rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta).
Kessler, M. J., Yarbrough, B., Rawlins, R. G., &
Berard, J. (Caribbean Prim. Res. Ctr., PO Box
1053, Sabana Seca, PR 00749) Journal of
Medical Primatology, 1984, 13, 57-66.

Free-ranging rhesus macaques on the island
of Cayo Santiago, Puerto Rico, were surveyed for
intestinal parasites for the ﬁrst time in over 40
Years. Results were compared with the only
previous study, and the relationships between the
prevalence of Strongyloides and dominance rank,
bOdy WGight, age, and matriline examined in the
sampled population.

Physiology

Hematology of mouse lemur

the lesser

 




 

(Microcebus murinus): A preliminary study. Der
Goukassian, Ph. (Laboratoire d’Ecologie Gnérale,
Museum National d’Historie, Naturelle, 4 avenue
du Petit Chateau, F-91800 Brunoy (France))
Folia Primatologica, 1983, 41, 129-136.

Some blood values of 86 lesser mouse lemurs
maintained in captivity are presented. These are
comparable with those ‘8; othézr prosimians: PCV

51.7%, RB 9.2 x 10 mm , MCV 57.5 WBC
12,900/mm , lymphocytes 59.7%, neutrophils
30.7%, monocytes 4.8%, eosinophils 4.2%,
basophils 0.6%. We noted no significant

difference between the sexes except that the
percentage of lymphocytes was slightly lower in
the females (with a corresponding percentage of
neurtrophils slightly higher). The
lymphocytezneutrophil ratio decreases with age,
particularly in young animals; the hematocrit
does not vary in adults.

A surgical procedure and tethering system for
chronic blood sampling, infusion, and temperature
monitoring in caged nonhuman primates.
McNamee, G. A., Jr., Wannemacher, R. W., Jr.,
Dinterman, R, E., Rozmiarek, H., & Montrey, R.
D. (Animal Res. Div., US Army Med. Res. Inst.
of Inf. Dis., Fort Detrick, Frederick, MD 21701)
Laboratory Animal Science, 1984, 34, 303-307.

A jacket and tethering system was used to
maintain chronic catheters in monkeys, which
provided catheter access and manipulability
without further restraint. Surgical placement of
catheters and a temperature probe allowed for a
common cutaneous exit and interface with the
jacket and tether. Monkeys were fitted in a
sterile leather or denim jacket which was
attached to a sterilized flexible stainless steel
cable. Through this conduit, an indwelling
temperature probe, as well as catheters from the
internal jugular and femoral veins, were attached
to a swivel unit located on the upper portion of
the cage. The internal jugular catheter was used
for the continuous infusion of support solution.
The catheter from the femoral vein was
maintained with a heparin lock and used for
serial blood sampling. Using this system, it was
possible to obtain frequent blood samples and
bOdy temperature readings, and to administer a
Continuous intravenous infusion without chemical
01‘ excessive physical restraint. To date, 367
monkeys, 322 cynomolgus (Macaca fascicularis),
16 rhesus (Macaca mulatta), and 21 African green
(Ceropithecus aethiops) have been studied using
this procedure.

29

Serum biochemical, hematological and body
measurement data for common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus jacchus). Yarbrough, L. W.,
Tollett, J. L., Montrey, R. D., & Beattie, R. J.
(Veterinary Resources Branch, US Army Med.
Res. Inst. of Chemical Defense, Aberdeen Proving
Ground, MD 21010) Laboratory Animal Science,
1984, 34, 276-280.

Blood samples were drawn and body
measurements taken from healthy adult and
juvenile common marmosets which had been
housed under controlled environmental conditions
for a minimum of 2 years. Blood was analyzed
for serum biochemical and hematological
constituents.

Blood chemistry of the common marmoset
(Callithrixjacchus) maintained in an indoor-
outdoor environment: Primate comparisons.
McNees, D. W., Lewis, R. W., Ponzio, B. J., Sis,
R. F., & Stein, F. J. (Texas A&M Univ., 3113
Hummimgbird Circle, Bryan, TX 77801)
Primates, 1984, 25, 103-109.

Blood chemistry values were collected over a
three-year period from at least 10 colony-born
and 24 wild-born apparently normal common

marmosets. BUN, SGOT, creatinine, calcium,
phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase, protein,
albumin, cholesterol, triglycerides, uric and

glucose values were determined. A statistical
comparison of baseline values was made between
wild-born, colony-born, male and female
marmosets. Also, the same comparison was
made between common marmosets and cotton-top
tamarins, white lipped tamarins and human
subjects.

Activated coagulation time for rhesus monkeys
(Macaca mulatta). Schiffer, S. P., Gillett, C. S., &
Ringler, D. H. (Unit for Lab. Anim. Med., Univ.
of Michigan Med. Sch., Ann Arbor, MI 48109)
Laboratory Animal Science, 1984, 34, 191-193.

The activated coagulation time tested
provided a rapid yet accurate measurement of the
intrinsic clotting system in rhesus monkey whole
blood. Other advantages of this test included
reproducibility, no requirement for control
samples, low cost and commercial availability.
The mean activated coagulation time value for 60
normal rhesus monkeys was 96 seconds with a
range of 77 to 125 seconds. There .were no
significant differences due to sex, venipuncture
site and time of blood collection.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ophthalmoscopic observasions of ocular fundus in
colony-born cynomolgus monkeys aged from 0
day to 90 days. Suzuki, M. T., Narita, H.,
Tanaka, Y., Cho, F., & Fukui, M. [In Japanese.]
(The Corporation for Production of Laboratory
Primates, and Tsukuba Primate Center for
Medical Science, The National Institute of Health,
Hachiman dai, Yatabe-machi, Tsukuba-gun,
Ibaraki-ken, and Institute of Basic Medical
Sciences, The University of Tsukuba, Tennodai,
Sakura-mura, Niihari-gun, Ibaraki-ken 305,
Japan) Experimental Animals, 1984, 33, 173-179.
Ophthalmoscopic observations were made of
the ocular fundus of 242 apparently healthy,
colony-born, anesthetized M acaca fascicularis aged
from O to 90 days. Regular and fluorescein
photographs were taken with Kowa RC-II
ophthalmoscope-camera by using daylight typed
color ﬁlm. The following findings were obtained
in each age class: (1) Retinal color was salmon
pink with O to 3-day-old neonates, salmon pink
and blue to green with 7— to 14-day-old animals
and blue to green with 60- to 90-day-old
monkeys. (2) As regards optic disc, 0- to 14-day-
old animals were observed to be light orange in
color, and the infant aged more than 28-days
showed orange color. (3) Retinal arteries and
veins were lightly reddish in color with every age
class. (4) Macular color was salmon pink on
0-day-old cases, slightly dark in 3-day-old
neonates and very dark after 14-days of age. (5)
Light retinal reflex was noted in O- to 7-day-old
animals. The reflex was observable in l4-day-old
animals without any case of exception. (6)
Retinal hemorrhages were recorded in 22 (67%)
of 36 neonates born in natural condition and 10
(33%) of 30 neonates born by Cesarean section.

Restoration of sexual performance in old rhesus
macaques paired with a preferred female partner.
Chambers, K. C., & Phoenix, C. H. (Reprod. Biol.
& Behav., Oregon Reg. Prim. Res. Ctr.,
Beaverton, OR 97006) International Journal of
Primatology, 1984, 5, 287-298.

Experiments were undertaken to determine
whether the decline in the ejaculation frequency
of old male rhesus macaques is due to a decrease
in physical capacity. In the ﬁrst experiment, the
capacity of old males to ejaculate in a series of
biweekly tests were investigated. Six old (18-23
yr) and 6 young (8-12 yr) male rhesus were given
10-min tests of sexual behavior with 9 different
females chosen at random. The old males were
also given 10-min tests with a preferred female,

30

 

1339. When the old males were tested with 9
different females, their sexual performance (e.g.,
frequency of ejaculation) was signiﬁcantly less
than that of the young males, but their
performance was comparable to that of young
males in 9 tests with female 1339. In a second
experiment, the capacity of old males to show
repeated ejaculations over a 3-hr period was
tested. The same old and young males were
given a 3-hr test with female 1339. The sexual
performances (number of ejaculatory series
completed and behavior displayed within each
ejaculatory series) of the old males did not differ
signiﬁcantly from those of the young. Also, no
signiﬁcant differences in behavior were observed
between young and old males during the ﬁrst 10
min of the 3-hr tests. Our data show that the
decline in the sexual performance of the old
rhesus males is not due to a decreased capacity to
perform sexually or to physical debilitation.

Breeding

Diagnosis and treatment of infertility in male
great apes. Gould, K. G. (Yerkes Reg. Prim.
Res. Ctr., Emory Univ., Atlanta GA 30322) Zoo
Biology, 1983, 2, 281—293.

Increased concern for maintenance of
endangered species in captivity has prompted
increased interest in monitoring the fertility of
captive animals. This paper outlines methods for
discrimination between lack of reproduction and
infertility, and provides guidelines for
identiﬁcation of physiological causes of infertility.
The role of environment in infertility is discussed,
and suggestions are made for correction of
environmental deﬁciencies. A brief review of the
potential for infectious infertility is followed by an
outline of appropriate treatments. It appears
that a primary cause of physiological infertility in
the gorilla is spermatogenic arrest, and it also
appears possible that this defect may be corrected
by alterations in environment and management.
In summary, the outlook for continu d breeding of
great apes in captivity is bright, and efforts in the
past few years to identify and alleviate potential
causes for infertility and nonreproduction are
beginning to yield good results.

Reproductive performance of three species of
Callitrichidae. Tardif, S. D., Richter, C. B., &
Carson, R. L. (Marmoset Res. Ctr., Med. & Hlth.
Sci. Div., Oak Ridge Associated Universities, Oak

 

 




 

Ridge, TN 37831) Laboratory Animal Science,
1984, 34, 272-275.

The reproductive performance of three
species of Callitrichidae housed under identical
conditions, including relatively spacious caging
and visual screening was compared. The three
species were Calﬁthrix jacchus, Saguinus
fuscicollis, and Saguinus oedipus. Callithrix
jacchus was the most reliable breeder, with the
lowest percentage of stillborn and the highest
post-weaning survival. While the reproductive
performance of S. oedipus was better than that
generally reported for other colonies, the
reproductive performance of the Saguinus species
was still poorer than that of C. jacchus. The two
Saguinus species did not differ signiﬁcantly in
either percentage of stillborn or post-weaning
survival. None of the species showed infertility
due to lactation, but the mean inter-birth interval
was significantly longer for S. oedipus than for
either C. jacchus or S. fuscicollis.

Timing of sexual maturity in female rhesus
monkeys (Macaca mulatta) housed outdoors.
Wilson, M. E., Gordon, T. P., Blank, M. S., &
Collins, D. C. (Yerkes Regional Prim. Res. Ctr.,
Field Station, 2409 Collins Hill Rd.,
Lawrenceville, GA 30245) Journal of
Reproduction & Fertility, 1984, 70, 625-633.

A comparison of the age and season at first
parturition was made for spring-born female
rhesus monkeys and for females born in the fall
to mothers who had been laboratory-housed
before being transferred outdoors. The data
suggested that season may influence the timing of
sexual maturation in rhesus moneys kept outside
in such a way that the occurrence of first

ovulation is restricted to the fall and winter
months.

Non-seasonal breeding patterns in stumptail
macaques (Macaca arctoides). Smith, E. O.
(Yerkes Reg. Prim. Res. Ctr., Field Station,
Emory Univ., 2409 Collins Hill Rd.,
Lawrenceville, GA 30245) Primates, 1984, 25,
117-122.

A summary of published reports of breeding
Patterns across the genus Macaca. Patterns
range from strictly seasonal to non-seasonal.
Data on sexual behavior and birth patterns are
Presented which confirm previous reports of non-
Seasonality for Macaca arctoides. In a captive
(30101133 63 births were recorded, some during
every month of the year. Heterosexual mounting

 

31

activity was recorded over a 2-yr period and
occurred during every month of that period. It is
clear M. arctoides does not exhibit the seasonal
cyclicity observed in some other macaque species.

Facilities and Care

Trapping, care, and laboratory management of
the silvered leaf monkey (Presbytis cristatus).
Palmieri, J. R., Van Dellen, A. F., Tirtokusumo,
S., Masbar, S., Rusch, J., & Connor, D. H.
(Dept. of Infect. & Parasitic Dis. Pathol., Armed
Forces Inst. of Pathol., Washington, DC 20306)
Laboratory Animal Science, 1984, 34, 194-197.

The silvered leaf monkey from South
Kalimantan (Borneo), Indonesia is a natural host
for a variety of ﬁlarial nematodes including
Brugia malayi and W uchereria kalimantani.
Experimental studies show that it is host for W.
bancrofti, a ﬁlarial nematode causing
elephantiasis in man. Presbytis cristatus is a
gregarious primate of primary and secondary
forests, roaming in troops of 20-30 members.
Primarily a fruit and leaf eater under natural
conditions, this monkey can adapt to a laboratory
diet of commercial monkey chow supplemented
with fruits and vegetables. Troops, led by an
alpha male, immediately respond to protect their
young during stressful or dangerous situation.
Infants are born singly and are bright orange.
Transition to the adult grey and black coloration
begins 3 to 5 mos after birth. Silvered leaf
monkeys can be readily trapped. Initially they
are aggressive and will attack but become
tractable several days after capture. Reaching
upward is an important feeding behavior of the
silvered leaf monkey and they will not feed from
the floor of the cage. In the laboratory they are
nonaggressive and lend themselves to various
procedures such as blood drawing and
examination. Silvered leaf monkeys travel well in
commercial animal transport cages. In the
United States they are not an endangered species
and can be readily imported. In Indonesia they
are not protected by law and can be exported.

Taxonomy

On the validity of the family-group name

Callitrichidae (Platyrrhini, Primates).
Hershkovitz, P. (Field Museum of Natural
History, Roosevelt Rd. at Lake Shore Dr.,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chicago, IL 60605) Mammalia, 1984, 48, 153.

This note is a reply to a recent one in the
same journal that attempted to show that
“Callithricidae”, not the current Callitrichidae, is
the correct family name for marmosets and
tamarins.

Conservation

A new locality for the lion-tailed macaque.
Groombridge, B. (IUCN Conservation Monitoring
Ctr, 219(c) Huntingdon Rd., Cambridge CB3
0DL, UK) Oryx, 1984, 18, 144-147.

With the help of local tribal people, the
author found a group of 5-10 lion-tailed macaques
(Macaca silenus) in south-west India in the
extreme northeast of the Anaimalai Hills (Kerala
State), which is a little outside their known range.
The find of even so small a group is important
because this species is considered on the verge of
extinction.

Endangered species of Bangladesh. Khan, M. A.
R. (Al-Ain Zoo and Aquarium, PO Box 1204,
Alain, Abu Dabai, UAE) Oryx, 1984, 18,
152-156.

Among other things, the author notes that
the population of the hanuman langur (Presybtis
entellus) is dwindling fast in Bangladesh. They
sometimes damage orchards and gardens and so
are treated as pests by villagers in the areas the
author visited (Jessore and Kushtia districts).
The hoolock gibbon (ulluk) H ylobates hooloc/a, also
endangered, was once common all over the
northern and eastern forests. Their position now

32

is most precarious in the forests of Sylhet
Division, where habitat destruction has forced
them to live in isolated pockets of semi-evergreen

forests. Each pocket is separated from the
neighboring ones by a tea garden or shrubbery,
an impassable land barrier for an arboreal
species, and there is no genetic exchange. The
forests of Chittagong, Cox’s Bazar and Hill Tracts
Divisions are being systematically clear-felled.

Gorilla trading, the nightmare that will not go
away. International Primate Protection League
Special Report, April 1984. 20 pp. (Available
from IPPL, P.O. Box 766, Summerville, SC
29484, $2.00 post paid.) -

All species of gorilla (Gorilla spp.) are now
listed in the category “Endangered” on the US.
Endangered Species list, and on Appendix I (their
most endangered category) of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species.
Nonetheless, trade in gorillas continues. This is
of concern to wildlife conservationists and
protectionists because the usual method of
catching gorilla infants for trade (shooting of
mothers and protective adults) is both detrimental
to species survival and inhumane. Recent
attempts by three U. S. Zoos to import wild-
caught gorillas, the recent arrival of a baby
gorilla from Africa at a Canadian zoo, and the use
by dealers of a Polish zoo for “laundering” of
wild-caught gorillas, have drawn international
attention and concern to the problems caused by
the continuing trade in young gorillas. This
special report brings together details of recent
developments concerning the gorilla trade.

 

 




 

Address Changes

Alexandra C. Bakarich, Naval Ocean Systems
Ctr., Code 524, San Diego, CA 92152.

Niles Bernick, Neurosciences Research Branch,
NIMH, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rm 9C-O9,
Rockville, MD 20857.

Ron Forino, Pace Setter Systems, 12884 Bradley
Ave., Sylmar, CA 91342.

Greysolynne J. Fox, 107 N. Oak St., Apt. 5,
Greenville, NC 27834.

Patricia E. Fritz, Box 1785,
Hershey, PA 17033.

PO Box 850,

Elizabeth G. Gibson, 8
Harvard University,
02138.

Cowperthwaite St.,
Cambridge, MA

James C. S. Kim, SDS Biotech Co., 7528 Auburn
Rd., PO Box 348, Painesville, OH 44077.

Anndrea Lenhard, 4602 Florence Rd., Knoxville,
TN 37920.

R. M. Letscher, Code 43,
Pensacola, FL 32508.

NAMRL-NAS,

 

**

33

T. M. Long, Zoonosis Control, Public Health

Region 9, PO Drawer 630, Uvalde, TX
78801.

Arthur W. O’Brien, Dept. of Clinical
Investigation, William Beaumont Army
Medical Center, El Paso, TX 79920.

V. Hugh Price, Animal Resources Divison, School
of Medicine, Louisiana State University

Medical Center, PO Box 33932,
Shreveport, LA 71130.
Richard G. Rawlins, Dept. Obstetrics &

Gynecology, Rush-Presybterian-St. Luke’s
Medical Center, 1753 W. Congress
Parkway, Chicago, IL 60612.

Research Resources Information Ctr., 1601
Research Blvd., Rockville, MD 20850.

Lawrence G. Sharpe, NIDA Addiction Research
Center, Bldg. C., 4940 Eastern Ave., PO
Box 5180, Baltimore, MD 21224.

Charles E. Thalken, PSC Box 2344, APO San
Francisco, CA 96238.

 




I’UN \‘(MSI’
I’UN ”PP"

1'0 “’0”.

Once dreaded as the most ferocious marine mammal, the
killer whale is now performing exacting diving tasks for
the Navy and is the chatty,endearing star of oeeanariums

n.‘v.)u¢mIV~~‘-r.' 4n». uni“ ,‘

. by RICHARD W. JOHNSTON

 




 

4-5»

,; ‘ 4"

 

. r A .. . , ,,
li¢ll ,,,,, If)??? . ia$ w,

 

 

 

 

 

VLQﬁA-(‘w‘rlru343415 A $33

 

 

 




.f"'

\mwhﬂ.“ ,

1:th new

ut in that wind-and-
current-driven squeeze
of sea that separates the

Hawaiian Islands of Oahu and Molokai, a historic drama
was played out in almost complete obscurity on a bright
June afternoon in 1971. Its principal actor was a handsome,
19-foot-long, black and white male killer whale named
Ahab. Its supporting players were two Navy scientists, Clark
A. Bowers and R. Scott Henderson. Their stage was a 72—
foot torpedo recovery boat—and the Paciﬁc Ocean itself.
Their audience was limited to an occasional passing ﬁsh—
erman or yachtsman, none of whom knew what he was
seeing or, indeed, that he was seeing anything at all. When
the play ended, there was no applause for Bowers or Hen-
derson and only a handful of ﬁsh for Ahab. The next day
the local press carried only a short account.

At almost exactly the same time, and nearly 3,000 miles
away, a quite different drama was being presented at Sea
World, the big San Diego oceanarium. It was billed as the
“world premiere” of a new aquatic show starring a female
killer whale named Shamu, who might have been Ahab’s
sister. Searchlights stabbed the sky and some 5,000 people
crowded the grandstand that overlooks Shamu’s 125-foot—
long, one-million-gallon show pool. The presentation was
titled “Shamu Goes Hollywood,” and in truth Hollywood
had gone Shamu. Debbie Reynolds and Steve Allen were
there, and so was Robert Wagner, along with many lesser
luminaries. There were fanfares, fast and corny patter from
Shamu’s trainer, and even a chimpanzee and a trained dog
in support. The whale’s performance brought repeated
bursts of applause culminating in an ovation, and critical
raves in the press.

Poor Ahab? Lucky Shamu? Not necessarily. Except for
the trappings, both whales were doing somewhat the same
things: demonstrating the metamorphosis of the king of the
sea—only six years earlier as dreaded in his own domain as
the lion is on land and the eagle is in the sky—into a seem-
ingly docile, trainable animal. And when the lights went off
in San Diego and the dark descended on the Naval Un-
dersea Center at Mokapu Point on windward Oahu, both
the star and the unknown had gotten roughly the same re-
ward: about 150 pounds of ﬁsh. What had each done to
deserve so bounteous a repast?

Ahab, holding in his jaws a mouthpiece shaped like an
enormous denture, had dived on signal 850 feet to the ocean
ﬂoor and had fastened a “grabber” attached to the mouth-
piece around a dummy torpedo. He had then returned to
the boat, presented the mouthpiece sans grabber to his train-
er, received a few ﬁsh and followed the boat back to his
pen. During the dive Ahab had held his breath for seven
minutes and 40 seconds. Shamu, for her part, had performed
a number of ﬂashy stunts that included leaping high out of
the water, carrying her trainer around the pool on her back
and allowing him to put his head in her mouth.

As recently as 1965 only a few scientists and one or two
romantic laymen felt certain that the killer whale—if one
were ever captured alive and unhurt—would be receptive
to the training techniques that had established the porpoise
(or bottle—nosed dolphin) as an animal idol of humanity.
The killer was generally considered a cunning and ferocious
carnivore that preyed on much bigger whales, devastated

66

ﬁsheries, gobbled seals and sea lions and, worst of all, some-
times dined on the lovable bottlenose. There were authen- ,
ticated reports of killer whales attacking small boats, and
even knowledgeable marine biologists suspected that if the
killer was not a man—eater, it was only because he hadn’t
caught one.

The elevation of the porpoise to the status of love object
is itself a fairly recent phenomenon. “If someone had con-
ducted a survey 30 years ago to determine which of all the
animals was considered smartest and friendliest and most
highly respected by man, there is little doubt that the dog
would have received the most votes,” Forrest Wood, a se-
nior scientist of the Biosystems Research department at San
Diego’s Naval Undersea Center, wrote last year in his ex-
cellent book Marine Mammals and Man. “Today a similar
poll would almost certainly show the porpoise in ﬁrst place.”

This waxing popularity was given a tremendous and en—
during boost by the publication of the theories of Dr. John
C. Lilly, a neurophysiologist who concluded, after studies
in the Virgin Islands and Florida, that the dolphin emitted
enough separate sounds to constitute a language. In his book
Man and Dolphin (1961) Lilly projected an imminent break-
through that would enable a human being to talk to the
animals—in either his language or theirs.

If that image has suffered any loss of luster, it is only be-
cause of the highly improbable emergence of the killer whale
as Flipper’s principal rival for human affection. In the nine
years since the accidental capture of Namu (SI, July 12,
1965, et seq.), the ﬁrst unmutilated killer ever shown in cap-
tivity, the whales have proliferated throughout the world’s
oceanariums. They have proven the equal or superior of
the bottlenose at learning show-biz tricks, emit just as many
varied and tantalizing sounds and are almost as endearing.
They don’t smile, but they have the lugubrious charm of a
linebacker hoping for a passing grade. The ﬂamboyant
marking of the whales, their awesome size and the anthro-
pomorphic promotion given whale shows as oceanarium
attractions have tended to obscure—and sometimes ob—
struct—a more important aspect of their brief period of
captivity, the scientiﬁc study of their physiology, their hab-
its, their so-called “language” and their adaptability to
complex behavior conditioning. Ahab’s 850-foot dive to the
Navy’s dummy torpedo, for example, got hardly any news-
paper or magazine attention although it represented a far
greater attainment in human-animal collaboration than
anything achieved in oceanariums before or since.

Ahab was one of two male killer whales—the other, sur-
prise! was Ishmael—and one pilot whale, Morgan, which
participated in a Navy experimental program called “Deep
Ops”—Deep Object Recovery with Pilot and Killer Whales.
Deep Ops—Navyese for deep operations—was the natural
outgrowth of a program begun in 1963 at the Navy’s bio-
science facility at Point Mugu, Calif. under the direction of
Forrest Wood. Before Wood took the Point Mugu job, he
had been the curator of Marineland’s research laboratory
and before that had run Michael Lerner’s pioneering lab-
oratory on Bimini. Among the projects at Mugu was one in
which porpoises and sea lions were taught to “mark” lost
objects in the open sea at depths down to 150 feet. The log-
ical next step was to attempt to train much larger animals
not only to dive deeper but to actually recover such gear.

 




“We had good reason to think this would succeed,” Wood
said recently. “Arthur McBride, Bill Schevill, Winthrop
Kellogg and Ken Norris had demonstrated that porpoises
had echolocation systems and extraordinary underwater di-
rectional hearing. We suspected that killer and pilot whales
shared these capabilities—in fact, we think all toothed
whales do.”

Toothed whales? Is little Flipper a toothed whale? The
answer is yes. Scientists categorize all whales as members
of the mammalian order Cetacea, which means “wholly
aquatic, carnivorous, warm-blooded mammals.” There are
two kinds of Cetaceans—huge baleen whales like the blue,
the gray and the humpback, which sieve their food through
complex screens, and toothed whales, which bite. Each sub-
order has several families, and each family embraces one
to 50 species. The most populous toothed family is called
the Delphinidae—dolphins and porpoises—and its Don Cor-
leone is the killer whale.

Besides teeth, what all these animals have in common
are their echolocation capabilities and their exceptional
hearing. Echolocation is what we called sonar when it was
invented during World War II. We didn’t know then that
toothed whales had been doing the same thing for tens of
thousands of years. They still do it better. These whales can
beam sounds containing frequencies that range from the
lower capacity of the human ear to many times above it, to
an object that has excited their curiosity and can interpret
the returning echoes with astonishing exactness.

However, the mission of Deep Ops was not to test the
echolocation abilities of the killers and pilots, but rather to
discover how deep they could go, whether they would be
able to hear and locate ‘ ‘beeping” targets and attach ‘ ‘grab-
bers” to them and to see if they would respond to orders in
the open sea—or just take off. Navy sea lions and porpois-
es occasionally had gone AWOL, but most had returned,
apparently preferring the safety, ample table and light work
load of the welfare state to the dangers and the unremitting
struggle for food in oceanic free enterprise (porpoises often
are the object of shark attacks as well as unwelcome at-
tention from uncousinly killers). But would the powerful
killer respond to training discipline if he could go free in
the seas he knew he ruled?

The Deep Ops killers, Ahab and Ishmael, were captured
in Puget Sound in October 1968 and ﬂown to Point Mugu;
Morgan, the pilot whale, was snared at about the same time
in Catalina Channel. Ahab was the biggest of the three at
19 feet and 5,500 pounds, and was thought to be the oldest——
nine or 10 years. Ishmael was two feet shorter and 1,000
pounds lighter, while Morgan was a shrimp—only 12 feet
long and 1,200 pounds. “We had certain deﬁnite expec-
tations for these whales,” one Navy scientist says, “as well
as uncertainties. We thought Morgan would be the deepest
diver, because pilot whales like squid, and that’s where the
squid usually are—as much as 200 fathoms down.”

By early January 1970 all three whales were in Hawaii
and had learned to answer underwater “recall” buzzers, to
follow training boats in enclosed waters, to retrieve objects,
to allow (and apparently enjoy) handling, to take prescribed
stations, to swim through gates and to hold their breath
and exhale on acoustic command. In the ensuing months
Bowers and Henderson rehearsed the whales in Kaneohe
Bay and taught them two “behaviors” no whale had ever
been asked to learn. One was to wear backpack harnesses
supporting radio transmitters; the other was to grip the
mouthpieces that would carry the crab-claw grabbers. None
rebelled against work or captivity. “The whales never tried
to escape from their pens,” Bowers says, “although at high
tide the fences were only about one foot above the water.”

Confronted now with the challenge of describing what
must have been a supreme moment—both in their lives and
those of the whales—they laconically observed in their of—
ﬁcial report: “By mid-September 1970 Morgan, Ahab and
Ishmael had all attained open-ocean reliability and there-
after were taken to sea ﬁve times a week for deep-dive and
deploy training.”

This was a little like summarizing one of Don Shula’s
football seasons by saying: “The Miami Dolphins, having
attained on—ﬁeld reliability, were taken out once a week
to beat the bejesus out of their opponents.” The metaphor

continued

67

 




Rt" V In)”, continued

is less incongruous than it may seem. In
both porpoise and whale training, the se-
cret of the intricate feats often performed
by these animals is “chained behavior,”
which simply means combining several
individual stunts in a sequence, some-
thing every defensive tackle is expected
to do. In oceanariums these composites
often depend on “secondary reinforce-
ment,” another jargonistic expression
that stands for interim reward—or a ﬁsh
snack.

The most spectacular public example
of chained behavior is the wild ride
offered by Sea World’s latest Shamu,
a/k/a Kilroy. To begin it, Shamu is “re-
called” to the training stage by a high-
pitched dog whistle, which goes 20,000
cycles per second and is barely audible
to humans. A loop about the size of a
hula hoop is offered him, and after he
has thrust his head through it he is re-
warded with a couple of ﬁsh. The loop is
designed to ﬁt just ahead of his ﬂippers.
Trainer Gary Priest then boards the
whale, sitting astride him and gripping
the top of the loop. In response to that,
Shamu swims to the end of the pool and
dives, rider and all. Some 30 feet down,
at the bottom of his plunge, he hears a
tone, which signiﬁes “jump.” He bursts
from the water like an astronaut’s rock-
et, Priest clinging to the loop, and then
dives again, soars Skyward, dives once
more and leaps for the third time. After
the last leap Shamu knows that if he re-
turns to the shallow area of the pool he
will get a whole handful of ﬁsh—“pri-
mary reinforcement,” or a good whale’s
just reward. Only the whale and his train-
ers know that Shamu has not performed
one “behavior,” but about six.

As fantastic as the triple-jump ride ap-
pears to the Sea World onlooker, it is a
less sophisticated and difﬁcult behavior
chain than those required of the Navy
whales in Hawaii. On a typical training
day in the Molokai Channel, Ahab (or
Ishmael or Morgan) was harnessed, then
released and invited to follow the train-
ing boat down the narrow, two—mile boat
channel blown out of Kaneohe’s fring-
ing reef. Along. the way he got an oc-
casional ﬁsh. When the boat reached the
work area in-theopen sea, the target with
recovery line and buoy was dropped
overboard, and the'boat and whale made
a Slow, 220=yard circle around‘the buoy.
Ahab was-expected to‘keep in Close touch

with the boat, which he: could identify.

by means ofa continuous, pulsing.5,eno-.

68

kilocycle “pinger” installed below the
waterline. The pinger told the whale not
to wander away to investigate the tall
sails and sleek hulls of passing yachts or
the chugging engines of ﬁshing sampans.
When it was time for the dive, Ahab was
oﬂered the mouthpiece, with practice
grabber attached. That indicated to
Ahab that he was now to concentrate on
the target, which also was “pingered,”
but at a different frequency. In the next
ﬁve to seven minutes Ahab dived to the
target, aligned himself so that the grab-
ber arms would close on it, pushed it
home, thus detaching it from the mouth-
piece, and returned to the boat and of-
fered the mouthpiece to his trainer. Then
he got a substantial reward of ﬁsh. The
signiﬁcant point, and the measure of the
Deep Ops achievement, is that all these
linked behaviors—from Ahab taking the
mouthpiece until he returned it—were
accomplished without secondary rein-
forcement by the trainer.

verything did not always go
smoothly. Sometimes the M010-
1 kai Channel kicked up 12-foot
seas the training boat could not navigate.
Sometimes there were hardware failures,
and in February 1971, when a target’s
recovery line broke at 750 feet, Ahab
went down twice and attached real re-
covery grabbers only to have both
mouthpieces fail to disconnect. Can such
malfunctions make a whale depressed?
The Navy doesn’t think so—but some—
thing sent Ahab into a month-long sulk.
He would neither eat nor train, a strike
that coincided with a period of rut in
Morgan during which, as Bowers and
Henderson soberly reported, he refused
to follow the boat out to sea and tried
‘ ‘to copulate with any large object in his
enclosure, such as the rubber raft, the
training platform and the transporter
pen.” The trainers prudently stayed out
of the water.

It was a bad month all around. In the
last week Ishmael, after performing a
500-foot dive, angrily spat out his mouth-
piece and slapped the water with his
ﬂukes and ﬂippers. Then he departed for
the open sea and, to the Navy’s horror,
his transmitter failed. Scratch one whale.
Was Ishmael really in ﬂight, or was he
just showing the independence that has
been noted in many killer whales? The
Navy scientists like to think he would
have retmned, if contact. could have been
maintained, and this View is bolstered by

Ahab’s sud-den bolt in July, only four
days after the whale’s historic dive de-
scribed earlier.

Ahab carried a greatly improved trans—
mitter, and the training boat was able to
follow him as he headed northwest to-
ward Kahuku at Oahu’s northernmost
tip. But the trainers couldn’t turn him
around. ‘ ‘Through the next 141/2 hours,”
Bowers and Henderson reported, “he
would answer the recall and follow the
boat only if the crew’s plans followed
his.” But ﬁnally Ahab did return, after a
three-hour nap off Kahuku. When he
awakened he responded to the recall and
followed the boat, docile as a lamb, all
the way back to his pen. He had covered
50 nautical miles on his spree, and
seemed glad to be home.

Not much has been said here about
Morgan, but it should be noted that the
dingy little black pilot—lacking the cha-
risma of the bottle—nosed dolphin and the
fearful reputation and ﬂashy coloration
of the killer—behaved about as expected,
except for his sexy solstice in February.
Although he was a slow learner, he was
steady, generally reliable and, as the
Navy had suspected, a truly deep diver.
On two occasions he went down to 1,654
feet to deploy the practice grabbers.

During most of Deep Ops, trafﬁc in
the ocean work areas was fairly heavy,
but no one ever asked what killer whales
were doing in the Molokai Channel. This
blackout was ﬁne with the Navy, which
had two good reasons for not wishing to
publicize the project. Not least was the
desire to keep the work areas clear—two
or three hundred spectator boats ringing
the target buoy would have turned the
channel into a howling, acoustic wilder-
ness. The other reason was more or less
subjective. Naval scientists were still
smarting (burning would be a better
word) over charges ﬁrst made in 1966
that they were training “Kamikaze por-
poises.” These accusations stemmed
from a journalistic misinterpretation of
a scientiﬁc paper on the ability of por-
poises to discriminate among certain
metals, and were inﬂamed by Dr. Lilly’s
well-remembered speculations in 1961
that porpoises might someday be trained
as suicidal, self-directing weapons.
Caught in the general credibility gap of
the period, the Navy was unable to allay.
these suspicions. Since critics usually
equated. ‘ ‘military applications” withthe
development of weaponry, nobody. was
eager to invite a new onslaught.

 




Deep Ops certainly involved “military
applications,” but these were entirely
limited to recovery of lost objects. As
Forrest Wood points out, its discoveries
have many civilian uses. Oceanographers
often need to recover recording devices,
and many industries must maintain and
service equipment in deep water. Whales,
porpoises and sea lions can be used to
photograph the ocean ﬂoor at depths far
below the capacity of human divers, and
(as they have proved at Sealab 11 off San
Diego) porpoises can provide a fast and
efﬁcient delivery service to manned hab-
itats. The recorded cries of killer whales
already have been used to scare off white
or beluga whales that were raiding Alas-
kan salmon runs and were in danger of
being shot by enraged ﬁshermen.

Tom Dohl, assistant to Dr. Kenneth
Norris and research associate in Ceta—
cean behavior at the Coastal Marine
Laboratory maintained by the University
of California at Santa Cruz, believes a
porpoise or killer whale conceivably
could be trained to locate an enemy
submarine and deliver an explosive
charge—but only if “all our own sub-
marines were rebuilt of acoustically dif—
ferentiated material. The animal might
then select the one that is different.” A
submarine under water does not really
“run silent, run deep,” but generates a
considerable amount of noise. “It would
not be difﬁcult for a whale or porpoise
to move toward it acoustically before
turning on its echolocation equipment,”
Dohl says, “but the reliability factor of
even a highly trained porpoise or whale
would be so slight in the open sea that it
seems silly to suppose that the fate of a
nation might hang on the vagaries of an-
imal behavior.”

The ’exaltation of the killer whale and
its investiture with all the virtues previ-
ously attributed to the bottle-nosed dol-
phin dates from July 1965, when a 22-
foot, 41/2—ton male became entangled in a
ﬁsherman’s net near the tiny town of
Namu in northern British Columbia. Ted
Griﬂin, a 29-year-old aquarist, bought
the whale for $8,000, named him Namu
and towed him 450 miles south to a
quickly improvised pen adjoining his pri-
vately owned wharfside aquarium in Se-
attle. The saga of the journey, fraught
with more perils than Pauline ever imag-
ined, was embellished by Grifﬁn’s vocal
and physical demonstrations of conﬁ-

dence in his huge new pet. Although Grif—
ﬁn held no degrees—had not, in fact, at-
continued

69

as

MWuxxxmwm\Vmﬁwx‘xaixmm\v\§\a

Hoist your
colors

 

 

 

 

A ' s _
.' . .3" '
lilfy‘ . /
’2’ / j;
/// a.
IIWogz'OJ: /
(

’;

(”VI/2'” /’ i. ,,

 

 

 

 




NV .ma

'leN ')'}'E" continued

tended college—he loved animals and
had read widely in marine biology. He
knew enough to recognize the killer as a
big dolphin, a member of the Delphi/1i-
dae family and a cousin to the bottlenose,
but he did not know—or did not be-
lieve—that Dr. Lilly’s theories of dolphin
brainpower were no longer taken serious-
ly by the scientiﬁc community. “You can
communicate with killer whales,” Griﬂ‘in
told the press. “They have more brains
than porpoises. Killers are the smartest
things that swim. This whale will be very
valuable for research projects. We’ll tape
his vocabulary!”

In support of another seemingly rash
statement—“like the porpoise, the kill-
er whale has friendly feelings toward
man”——Grifﬁn got in the water with
Namu, rubbed and fondled him, taught
him to roll over and eventually persuad-
ed him to answer a recall buzzer. For
about a year both Namu and Grifﬁn were
folk heroes in Seattle. Then Grifﬁn’s love
for animals betrayed him. In response to
demands from oceanariums all over the
world, he and his partner, Don Goldsber-
ry, formed a whale collection agency. On
one of their ﬁrst ventures, they snared a
killer cow and calf in Puget Sound.
The cow somehow became entangled
in the net of their purse seiner and
drowned. The calf went on to become Sea
World’s original Shamu, the m0st fa-
mous whale in the world. “Ted made a
mistake after that incident,” says Dr.
Mark Keyes, research veterinarian and
veterinary medical ofﬁcer of the marine
mammals division of the National Ma-
rine Fisheries Service Seattle branch.
“He felt so shamed that he had lost an
animal—even though it was not his
fault—that he told the press the whale
had escaped and made arrangements to
have it sent to a local rendering plant to
be examined by scientists. One of the pa-
pers caught him at it, and he went from
hero to villain overnight. Then Namu’s
death really did it.”

Namu died almost a year to the day
after his capture. From that time on,
Grifﬁn and Goldsberry and Namu, Inc.,
their collecting ﬁrm, were blasted by the
media each time they lost a whale. (Ev-
ery animal collector, from Frank Buck
to the neighborhood kid with his butter-
ﬂy net, suffers occasional accidental loss—
es.) Four years ago an embittered Grif-
ﬁn sold his interest to Goldsberry and,
in effect, disappeared. “It’s a shame he
was driven away,” Dr. Keyes says indig-

7O

nantly. “It’s my opinion that Ted Grif-
ﬁn did more good for the conservation
of killer whales than all the marine bi-
ologists and protectionists put together
because he brought about a whole new
public attitude toward killer whales.”
Although Grifﬁn has gone into seclu-
sion in eastern Washington, many of his
intuitive conclusions about whale behav-
ior and potential have proven correct.
Perhaps his only serious mistake was to
impute so many human values to the kill-
ers that obtaining one has become pro-
hibitively expensive. Dolphins, including
killers and pilots, are not considered en-
dangered species, but in 1973 a Congress
that obviously believed these animals are
‘ ‘cousins to man” passed a Marine M am-
mal Protection Act, which not only for-
bids speculative collecting but requires
prospective buyers—including the gov-
ernment’s own scientists as well as ocean-
ariums—to spend thousands of dollars
on paper work just to prove their right
to approach a collector. The act specif-
ically forbids importation of animals
from countries with less restrictive laws.

hat has been learned about the
“ killer whale as a consequence of

collection—and was it worth
learning? Moreover, does man have the
right to imprison an animal of equal or
superior intellect either for scientiﬁc in-
quiry or oceanarium display? How one
votes on these questions depends pretty
much on who one believes—Dr. Lilly and
his followers or the marine biologists and
zoologists who dispute them. There
seems little doubt that many Americans
believe—or want to believe—that por-
poises are smarter than we are.

On the available evidence marine sci-
entists do not believe that toothed whales
possess human—let alone superhuman—
intelligence. Although brain size is not
irrelevant, they think it likely that por-
poise and whale brains are substantially
composed of neural tissue needed to op-
erate their highly complex echolocation
and acoustic systems. Given these inter-
pretations, they see. nothing illogical or
immoral about further study of the an-
imals. The incontrovertible fact is that
we have learned more about killer
whales, thanks to their brief captivity,
than had been discovered in the previ-
ous 2,000—or two million—years.

A decade ago there were just about as
few marine mammal veterinarians in cap-
tivity as whales. Now there are more than

100, and Dr. Sam Houston Ridgway,
head of the NUC San Diego Biomedical
Division, a Ph. D. in neurobiology as well
as a D.V.M., is one of the most accom-
plished. “Before Namu’s capture we had
made considerable headway in porpoise
medicine,” Ridgway says, “but nobody
knew if it also would work on whales,
despite their familial relationship. It
does, and now we can vaccinate against
the clostridial infections—pulpy kid-
hey—which killed Namu and is common
in sheep; and blackleg, a muscle-destroy-
ing infection common to cattle that has
been found in marine mammals. We also
have a vaccine for erysipelas, and we are
working on preventive measures against
many diseases including Asian ﬂu and
anisakiasis—all diseases that are shared
by humans and marine mammals.”

Marine physiologists also have discov-
ered how whales can dive to 3,000 feet
or more with no ill effects, while the
best we can do is about 200. Thanks to
an adaptive mechanism evolved in pre-
historic times, whales can store a great
deal of oxygen in their blood and mus-
cles and in deep dives can channel most
of it to the brain and heart, thus incur-
ring a huge but quickly repayable oxy-
gen debt. Another extraordinary por-
poise and whale capability, discovered at
Point Mugu by Ridgway, is the collaps-
ible thorax. When a diving whale reach-
es a certain pressure point, his chest folds
in instead of being crushed. This traps
lung air—including nitrogen—and his
system switches to muscle-blood oxygen.
As a consequence, whales don’t get “the
bends” and will never know, in Captain
Cousteau’s romantic phrase, “the rap-
ture of the depths.”

To extend medical research and to in-
vesti gate other aspects of whale behavior,
scientists need captive animals. At pres-
ent the Navy has no whales, but people
in the bioscience research areas stress
that they could be obtained if higher-pri-
ority projects did not exhaust limited
research funds. The layman may wonder,
however, why the Pentagon cannot ﬁnd
funds in its $87.7 billion budget for a cou-
ple of successors to Ahab and Ishmael,
which cost $3,000 apiece.

In his Deep Ops report Clark Bowers
recommended attempts to test the sonar
abilities of killers and pilots in locating
nonacoustic targets, which cannot be
done with untrained whales in the wild.
(Civilian scientists unaﬂiliated with the

Navy believe some such experiments may ..

. \

 




be in progress with porpoises.) The ef-
fective range of so-called “click trains,”
which all dolphins emit for echolocation
purposes, has not been established, and
we do not yet know how far such trans-
missions can go and still send back us—
able information. As Tom Dohl says, the
sea is rather like a noisy cocktail party.
Both humans and porpoises can screen
out extraneous sounds, and it is pre-
sumed whales can, too, given the extreme
frequencies at which they can pitch their
click trains and at which their sensitive
ears will pick up the descriptive echoes.
Both oceanarium trainers and marine bi-
ologists feel that techniques of implant-
ing behavior trains have advanced only
a few steps beyond the point, say, at
which Ben Franklin found electricity at
the end of his kite string, and that the an-
imals may prove capable of far more so-
phisticated maneuvers.

None of these informational needs will
seem important to people who believe
there should be no oceanariums, no
aquariums, no zoos or any other re-
straints on animals. This seems an ap-
propriate place, however, to drop a word
of reassurance to antivivisectionists, who
often have joined the forever-free groups
in opposing capture of whales and por-
poises and the subsequent scientiﬁc study
of the animals. No marine mammals are
being used in painful laboratory exper-
iments intended to provide medical ben-
eﬁts for either man or the animals. Iron-
ically, the only recorded painful proce-
dures ever imposed on porpoises were
Dr. Lilly’s early electrode probes, and
during his own—and others’wsearch for
an effective anesthesia technique (the lat-
ter was perfected 10 years ago and is used
for necessary curative surgery). The
whales have gone scot—free, and they have
never been fed anything but ﬁsh——-no
smiling porpoises or winsome seals have
been sacriﬁced to the killers’ supposed
lust for warm blood. Nor is there any
“negative reinforcement”——the double-
speak word for physical punishment—~of
animals that prove recalcitrant or slug-
gish in training.

If one concedes that people are being
pretty nice to killer whales, a corollary
question arises: Are whales being nice to
people? Was Ted Griﬂin right when he
described the killer as ‘ ‘friendly to man”?
The answer is a tentative yes. No human
being, so far as is known, has ever been
killed by a whale, in captivity or in the
wild. Only two open—sea attacks have

been reported, and they seem to have

been accidents. A surfer oﬁ“ Santa Cruz .

had one leg mangled by a killer, who
seized him—and then let go. The same
thing happened to a. diver in the vicinity.
Both were swimming among or near sea-
lion herds, and Forrest Wood suspects
that is what the whales thought the swim-
mers were———“errors that were quickly
rectiﬁed.”

The most famous whale incident oc-
curred at Sea World in 1971. A secre-
tary, Anne Eckis, fell off the original
Shamu while she was riding her for a
movie crew. Eckis, whose orange and
hot-pink bikini may have intrigued Sha-
mu, was butted several times as she tried
to swim to the show-pool stage. The
whale ﬁnally took her leg in its mouth
and more or less delivered the frightened
girl to trainer Kent Burgess. Eckis suf-
fered minor puncture wounds but in the
hospital said, “Shamu was just play-
ing . . . if she had wanted to she could
have bitten my legs off.”

Navy scientists agree with that eval-
uation, but oceanarium whale trainers
are wary. At Marineland of the Paciﬁc,
in Palos Verdes, Calif, Tom Otten said,
“We don’t get into the water with them
much.” Sea World’s Gary Priest agrees,
and goes further. “These animals are
dangerous to be around,” he says. “If
we are upset on a ride, we’ve learned one
thing: never try to swim to safety. Flight
seems to trigger a chase mechanism in
killer whales. You become prey instead
of the friendly trainer.” Sea World’s
whales are never encouraged to bite any-
thing—“Next time it might be you,”
Priest says.

I 'he Navy’s Bowers disagrees with
Priest on several points, includ-
ing the “trigger mechanism,”

and Wood wryly notes that ﬂight also

triggers chase in ﬁsh, dogs, cats and small
boys. Bowers says the trainers often were
in the water with Ahab and Ishmael in

Hawaii and were not molested. However,

Bowers did report in Deep Ops on the

whales’ occasional temper tantrums, and

Priest experienced one such outburst

while riding a whale named Ramu in

1971. “He tossed me off, and then bit

me, or tried to,” Priest says. “He cer-

tainly wasn’t trying to eat me—it was
more like he was saying, ‘Don’t fool
around with me—you’re in my territory.’

I didn’t dare swim in front of him, so I

tried to sneak around behind him. No

way. He backed up, and with those big
ﬂukes knocked me out of the water right
up on the stage.”

Even though the killers seem to have
no taste for man (actually, they have no
sense of smell or taste, at least as far as
we understand those terms), they do eat
seals, sea lions, porpoises and big
whales—don’t they? The overwhelming
weight of marine scientiﬁc opinion is that

' they surely do, a belief based in part on

the ﬁndings of a 19th century biologist
named Daniel Frederik Eschricht, who
reported ﬁnding fragments of 14 seals
and 13 porpoises in the belly of a 16-foot
killer. Sam Houston Ridgway doesn’t be-
lieve it. “I don’t think they eat anything
but ﬁsh,” Ridgway says. “I was present
for the capture of Ishmael and Ahab, and
for a week divers worked among the 25
whales we had in the net, making selec-
tions. Even though the whales weren’t
fed, they showed no inclination to attack
or eat the divers. Although there is doc-
umented scientiﬁc evidence of marine
mammals in killer whale stomach con-
tents, I have yet to ﬁnd anyone who has
actually seen a killer whale eat a seal, a
sea lion, a porpoise or another whale. At
Point Mugu one of our sea lions found a
way to sneak into the whale tank and
browse the bottom for food. The whales
certainly knew he was there but they not
only didn’t attack him, every now and
then they’d drOp him a ﬁsh!”

Dr. Keyes, Ridgway’s friend and col-
league, takes pained exception to this
View. “Our laboratory people have seen
them eat all the smaller mammals Sam
mentions,” Keyes says. ‘ ‘In fact, they be-
lieve that between salmon runs these an-
imals are the principal part of the whales’
diet in coastal waters of the eastern Pa-
ciﬁc.” The Ridgway theory is hard to
square with the “mistaken identity” at-
tacks off California, unless the whales
were just indulging in some rough play.
Even if Ridgway is right and the animals
do not eat other mammals, a recent and
convincing eyewitness report indicates
that they do, indeed, kill for sport. Last
Jan. 8 Stephen Leatherwood, NUC San
Diego’s marine-mammal specialist, saw
two killers—a male and a female—delib-
erately destroy a 4,000—pound elephant
seal within 45 seconds in three separate
attacks off Baja California, and then
swim away without even taking a can-
ape’ from the bloody carcass.

Although folklore is full of stories
about unprovoked attacks on boats by

continued

.. 71

 




t-m.‘
m v.1
' 3i

“ "Kit-:2?

 

 

 

 

‘ If you only
played olf
at one p ace
in the world,
maybe
it should be

Hawaii’s

 

Maybe it should be the place sev-
eral times singled out as the finest
resort hotel in the world. Where
the famous golf course follows
ancient lava flows, and you drive
across the ocean at the third . ..

Our Golfer’s Special gives you
5 days, 4 nights in a deluxe beach
front room with private lanai,
breakfasts, dinners, all greens fees
and more, all for $190 per person
triple occupancy, $220 per person
double. Family Plan, Tennis and
Scuba Specials also available. All
Plans April 14 through December
20, 1974. Honeymoon Plan avail-
able year-round.

See your travel agent, or call in
Los Angeles 213-657-2667, San
Francisco 415-392—4474, or the
Loews Reservations office in your
city; Operated by Rockresorts, Inc.

 

 

 

'leN ') ”'1‘" continued

whales, there is only one veriﬁable case
of major destruction. It was a beauty,
though. In 1971 Dougal Robertson, his
wife Lyn, their three children and a crew-
man, Robin Williams, were sailing the
43-foot, 19-ton schooner Lucette from
Panama to Australia. They suddenly
were set upon by a pod of killers that sank
the boat in exactly one minute but, aston-
ishingly, showed no interest in its human
cargo. The Robertsons and Williams en-
dured 37 days of misery on a life raft be-
fore being rescued.

Dave Butcher, a Sea World trainer, be-
lieves he knows why the whales attacked
the Lucette. “I think a boat in strange
waters is just something in their environ-
ment they don’t understand or enjoy and
want to get rid of,” he says. His theory
is echoed by Dr. Keyes, who notes there
has never been an incident in Puget
Sound, which is full of both boats and
whales. Tom Otten at Marineland pro-
vides lateral support. “I don’t know
about boats,” he says, “but Orky, our
biggest killer whale, is skeptical of
strange forms in unexpected places.”

Orky is a pretty independent whale
even in training. During a recent visit he
refused to make a second 23-foot leap
to touch a suspended ball, ﬁrst “stand-
ing up” in the water and circling the tar-
get, then swimming away. This seemed
to demonstrate Forrest Wood’s cau-
tious generalization: “People who have
worked with porpoises, pilots and kill-
ers feel that the latter often are more in-
dependent—and thus less reliable———in
performing certain behaviors.” He em-
phasizes, however, that every individual
is different. Clark Bowers says that ‘ ‘kill—
ers are less nervous and easier to han-
dle,” an opinion shared by Gary Priest
and Dave Butcher, who think that whales
learn more quickly than porpoises.
‘ ‘That’s partly because the porpoise must
ﬁrst be reassured that he is not in dan-
ger,” Priest says. “This never seems to
occur to the whale.”

Assessing animal intelligence is a
tricky business at best. There are great
differences among individuals in a single
species (some chimps are chumps), and
some species seem to excel at “oddity
learning” (selecting a triangle from two
circles, for example), while others react
more quickly to reversed stimuli. To ap-
proach human intelligence, however, a
species would have to possess both in-
sight and the ability to solve connected
abstract problems, and thus far no dog,

72

 

chimpanzee, porpoise or whale ever has.
Scientists think an organized language
capability may be essential to more ad-
vanced accomplishments, and only Dr.
Lilly and his supporters believe other
mammals possess it. Wood, who was
host to Dr. Lilly during the latter’s early
dolphin experiments at Marineland of
Florida, was dismayed when he read Man
and Dolphin. “Moving into the unfamil-
iar ﬁelds of behavior, bioacoustics and
linguistics, Lilly seemed to lose whatever
critical acumen and scientiﬁc skepticism
he possessed,” Wood wrote in Marine
Mammals and Man.

Right on, says Dr. Lilly, who since
1964 has been tripping on LSD in an~ef-
fort to raise his own c‘onsciousness to the
level he feels exists in toothed whales. In
a remarkable interview in Penthouse last
September, Lilly talked darkly of ocean-
ariums as “concentration camps,” and
said he had abandoned dolphin research
in 1967 becauseman’s own belief systems
“are so entrenched and so anti-life—anti
his own life, anti other life in the uni-
verse—that this isn’t the time. . . . The
zoologists have the ear of government,
and they’ve been put in powerful places.
They are practical people, ‘the engi-
neers.’ They are not scientists.”

Even though he is no longer working
with animals, Lilly feels he is getting clos—
er to them. “A big sperm whale who has
ﬁnishedmating and gotten his family
over with has lots of time for medita-
tion,” Lilly told the interviewer. “He’s
got six times the brainpower for medi-
tation that we have. . . . It’s probably a
much higher form of consciousness than
any we can conceive of, and it’s prob—
ably extremely alien to us. I’ve gotten
into some spaces with acid in isolation
that probably resemble some of the
spaces they’ve been in.” Perhaps some—
day Dr. Lilly will peak and realize his
ambition to talk to a sperm whale. The
question then may be: Will the whale
talk to him? As Lilly himself has said,
explaining his loss of interest in Chim-
panzees, “Why waste your time on small-

, brained animals?”

Meanwhile, the “engineers” will con-
tinue seeking data on toothed-whale in-
telligence on less celestial levels; ocean-
ariums and collectors will continue their
rescue efforts; and Americans will remain
enraptured by these delightful animals
and will forgive them their failure to
speak out against inﬂation and to nego-
tiate world peace. END




REFUTATION OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR MEDICAL RESEARC H'S
"NINE REASONS WHY THE SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY OPPOSES FEDERAL
REGULATION OF RESEARCH IN BIOLOGY AND MEDICINE"

| 9 | n o ., :3 I J eJ d d, s" d: J; '1 \La s" \b s" x"
>:< >.< >{< >:< >{< >}< >1: >1: >2< >:< :k >{< >§< >3: >1: :2: >2< >1< >:< >,< >,< >5; :3: >2; 4 a: ,,< q: r.< as as an rp >.~ '4‘ v» r» r» ’1‘

How is it that the British "scientific community" accepts government regulation
of the use of animals in research, while the American "scientific community" rejects
it, claiming that such legislation will abridge personal freedom and "stifle creative
research"? The objections to the Cooper bill prepared for the "scientific community”
by the NSMR require point by point examination because they are point by point in—
accurate. It is clear that this NSMR Oppposition is not legitimate because it is
based on misinformation,

Refutation of the nine objections outlined by the NSMR:

1. Other professional groups throughout the world have found themselves able
to submit to this supposed indignity of being licensed by the government.
If there is no "significant" mistreatment of animals in research laboratories,
then research workers can have nothing to fear from Federal inspection,

Whether or not government inspectors would be ”wiser and kinder” than
university presidents and deans, they would at least make it their business
to enforce minimal standards in the treatment of experimental animals, a
thing which university dignitaries are demonstrablynot doing today,

. So—called "constructive" legislation in this field already exists; the
construction of animal quarters is recognized as a proper expense under
Federal research grants". Government research in animal husbandry may
seem more imperative when the majority of laboratories is making full
use of the large volume of information now being made available by such
organizations as the Animal Care Panel, the Animal Welfare Institute and
the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare of Great Britain,

To stOp the use of vertebrates in research would be ”feasible and satis-
factory" to no one° The Cooper bill is not an anti~vivisection measure:
it is a regulatory bill similar to the British Cruelty to Animals Act of
1876, and only willful misinterpretation can represent it as anything else,

This objection arises from a failure to understand the language of the bill,
The bill does not require that research plans be pre—approved, only that
they should be filed with the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare
before the scientist proceeds, This involves no waiting, Should the
scientist wish to change the general direction of his research, he has

only to file the revised plan, and he is at once at liberty to proceed,

If scientists find it too burdensome to keep the minimal records of their
use of animals required for the use of inSpectors under the Cooper bill,
they are under no compulsion to accept massive amounts of United States
tax money for their research. Without records the bill could not be
administered, but paper work has been kept to a minimum.

The bill contains no such provision, The inspector is authorized to
require a scientist to destroy an animal only if it is undergoing
severe and prolonged suffering which is not in conformity with the
research plan on file with the Secretary.

Some states specifically exempt experiments in research laboratories
from the provisions of their anti-cruelty laws. In the remainder,

r rch remains in practice outside the province of the anti—cruelty
laws, just as did slaughterhouses before the passage of the Humane
Slaughter Law.

Great Britain, which surely shares "America's historic abhorrence of
regimentation", accepts legislation similar to the COOper bill, and
British research is in the front rank. If it is a question of national
pride, investigation shows that it is in the totalitarian countries where
cruelty to animals is legal, and not in the free world. '

Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, New York

 




ALLIANCE

9.0. Box 75116
Washington,'DC
(703) 684-b654

I?

i,

J

20013-5116
Where bill

LEGISLATIVE SUMMARY
100th Congress: Chart #6

is presently residing

Bills which need immediate attention;
see "comments" column.
Change in Status/Comments since previous

Summary.

Date: 8/31/87

Page: l of 8

 

BILL NO. &
SPONSCR

SUBJECT

 

COIVM I TTEE
& CHAIR

 

 

SUBCOMWITTEE
& CHAIR

 

smms&#'
or co—spow

 

COMMENTS

 

LEGISLATION PERTAINING TO ANIMALS IN LABORATORIES

 

H.R. 241
(Roth/R-WI)
(1/6/87)

Amends Animal Welfare Act
with respect to issuance of
temporary restraining orders
& injunctions.

Agriculture
(de la Garza/
D-TX)

Deparhnent
Operations,
Reasearch &
Foreign
Agriculture
(Brown/D-CA)

No action
taken.

34 co-sp.

Support.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

H.R. 778
(Mrazek/D-NY)
(1/27/87)

(Ford/DA<Y)
(6/30/87)

PET PROTECTION ACT:
Prevents use of animals
taken from shelters for
NIH-funded research.

b-‘uu———._c_——_*n——-._—d

Companion bill to H.R. 778.

Energy &
Commerce
(DingelI/D-Ml)

I. ........
Labor and Human
Resources
(Kennedy/D-MA)

Health & the
Environment
(Waxman/D-CA)

Not yet assigned.

No action
taken.

93 co-sp.

No action
taken.
0 co-sp.

Support.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

sponsorship.

 

H.R. 1616
(Brown/D-CA)
(3/16/87)

Establishes Government Infor-
mation Agency to allow access
to Federally sponsored or
produced information.

Armed Services
(Aspin/D-WI)

Government
Operations
(Brooks/D-TX)

Procurement and
Military Nuclear *
Systems
(Stratton/D-NY)

Government
Activities &
Transportation
(Collins/D-IL)

No action
taken.

8 co-sp.

Support.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

H.R. 1635
(Boxer/D-CA)
(3/17/87)

CONSUMER PRODUCTS SAFE TEST-
ING ACT: Prohibits Federal
Deparhnent or Agency from
consideraing LD/SO results
for product safety labeling
or regulation.

Energy &
Commerce
(DingelI/D-Ml)

Health and the
Environment
(Waxman/D-CA)

No action
taken.

87 co-sp.

Support.
Urge co-
sponsorship.”

 

H.R. 1708
(Torricelli/
D-NJ)
(3/18/87)

INFORMATION DISSEMINATION OF
RE SEARCH ACCOUNTABILITY ACT:
Establishes lbtional Center
for research accountability
at the National Library of
Medicine. Requires litera-
ture reviews prior to fund-
ing grant prOposaIs where
live animals are used to
prevent duplication.

Energy &
Commerce
(Dingell/D-Ml)

Health and the
Environment
(Waxman/D-CA)

No action
taken.

43 CO‘Sp 0

Support.
Urge co~
sponsorship.

 

H.R. 1770
(Rose/D-NC)
(3/24/87)

STANDING TO SUE BILL:

amends Section 19 of the
Animal Welfare Act to permit
any individual to sue those
charged with enforcement of
the Act's provisions.

Agriculture
(de la Garza/
D-TX)

Judiciary
(Rodino/D-NJ)

Department
Operations,
Research &
Foreign Agri-
culture
(Brown/D-CA)

Administrative
Law
(Frank/D-MA)

No action
taken.

47 co-sp.

Support.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

H.R. 2883
(Snith/R-NH)
(7/1/87)

Provides for transfer of the
Silver Spring Monkeys to the
animal sanctuary, Primarily
Primates, Incorporated.

Energy and
Commerce
(DingelI/D-Ml)

Health and the
Environment
(Waxman/D-CA)

No action
taken.

31 co-sp.

Support.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

H.R. 3119
(Rose/D-NC)
(8/5/87)

Amends title 35 of the United
States Code by establishing a
two-year moratorium, during
which time Congress will ad-
dress the profound economic,
environmental, and ethical
questions of patenting genete
icaIIy altered or modified
animals.

Judiciary
(Biden/D‘DE)

Courts, Civil

Liberties and

Administration
of Justice

.(Kastenmeier/

D-Wl)

No action
taken.

6 CO- Sp 0

 

Support.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

HoR. 3233
(Towns/D-NY)
(8/7/87)

NON-AGRICULTURAL FARM ANIMAL
PROTECTION ACT: Amends Animal
Welfare Act to protect farm
animal: used in non~agricul~
tural research and prohibits
the unnecessary surgery or
alteration of animals. (H.R.
2593 and H.R. 2594 were com-
bined to to." “his bill).

Agriculture *
(de la Garza/
D-TX)

Not yet assigned.

No action
taken.

 

I6 co-sp.

Support.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

H. Con. Res. 19
(Jacobs/D-IN)
(1/7/87)

 

Requires that Federal agencies
which use draize test develop
and validate alternatives.

Energy &
Commerce

 

 

(DingeIl/D-Ml)

Health &
Environment

 

(Waxman/D-CA)

No action
taken.
5 CO‘Sp o

 

 

Support.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

 

 

 




ALLIANCE

P.O. Box 75116
WashingTon, DC
(703) 684-0654

20013-5116

LEGISLATIVE SUMMARY
IOOTh Congress: Charf #6

Where bill is presenle residing
Bills which need ImmediaTe aTTenTion;
see "commenTs" column.

Change in SiaTus/CommenTs since previous

Summary.

DaTe: 8/31/87

Page: 2 of 8

 

BILL NO. 8
SPONSOR

SUBJECT

COMMITTEE
8 CHAIR

SUBCOMVI I TTEE
8 CHAIR

Rsmws&#l

OF CO-SPON

COMMENTS

 

S. 1354
(Chiles/D-FL)
(6/11/87)

NATIONAL BIOTECHNOLOGY I NFORM-
ATION ACT: esTablishes a naT-
ional cenTer for bioTechnolog—
ical informaTion. The cenTer,
wiThin The NaTional Library of
Medicine, would consolidaTe
all informaTion available on
The human gene.

Labor and Human
Resources
(Kennedy/D-MA)

NoT yeT assigned.

No acTion
Taken.

0 CD’Sp o

SupporT.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

4

 

S.J. Res. 142
(Weicker/R-CT)
(5/29/87)

(Hoyer/D-MD)
(7/22/87)

NATIONAL MEDICAL RESEARCH DAY:
DesignaTes OcTober i, 1987 as
NaTional Nbdicai Research Day.
PerpeTuaTes The myTh ThaT bio-
medical research enhances
human healTh.

r- ———————— r- ———————————————
H.J. Res. 340 Companion resoluTion To S.J.

Res. 142.

 

q

GovernmenTaI
Affairs
(Glenn/D-OH)

PosT Office 8
Civil Service
(Ford/D—Ml)

 

 

Federal Services,
PosT Office and
Civil Service
(Pryor/D-AR)

Census and
PopulaTion *
(DymalIy/D-CA)

Passed
SenaTe
6/25/87.
Referred
To House.

No acTion
Taken.

 

2 co-sp.

 

(See commenTs
below.)

concern To
SenaTors and
,RepresenTaTive.

 

LEGISLATION PERTAINING TO WILDLIFE: HUNTED OR TRAFPED ANIMALS

4L

 

H.R. 3

(GephardT/D-MO)
(1/6/87)

TRADE AND INTERNATIONAL REFORM

ACT: included in SecTion 811
of TITIe 8 is provision which
allows imporTaTion of furs
from U.S.S.R.

All commiTTee

mark-ups
occurred in
4/87.

All subcommiTTee

mark-ups occurred
in 3/87.

Passed

House and
SenaTe.
CurrenTIy
pending

in confer-
ence.

208 co-sp.

Oppose SecTion

811 of TiTle

8 of This

bill. Express
concern To
SenaTors and
RepresenTaTive,
encourage '”"
deIeTion of
SecTion 811 of
TiTle 8 of Thij
House-origin-
aTed bill.

 

H.R. 138
(Emerson/R-MO)
(1/6/87)

PermiTs Trapping in Ozark
NaTional Scenic Riverways
area.

lnTerior 8
Insular Affairs
(Udall/D-AZ)

NaTionaI Parks
and Public *
Lands
(VenTo-DAWN)

No acTion
Taken.

0 co-sp.

Oppose.

Express
concern To
RepresenTaTive.

 

H.R. 623
(Young/R-AK)
(1/20/87)

Provides moneTary compensa-
Tion To professional regis-
Tered hunTing guides in
Alaska for loss of income
from resTrIcTions on hunTing.

lnTerior 8
Insular
Affairs
(Udall/D-AZ)

WaTer 8 Power
Resources
(Miller/D—CA)

No acTion
Taken.

0 co-sp.

Opppose.
Express
concern To
RepresenTaTive.

 

H.R. 779
(Mrazek/D-NY)
(1/27/87)

KANGAROO PROTECTION ACT:
ProhibiTs imporTaTion of
cerTain kangaroos 8 producTs
made from Them.

MerchanT
Marine 8
Fisheries
(Jones/D-NC)

Fisheries 8 Wild-
life ConservaTion *
8 The EnvironmenT
(STudds/D-MA)

No acTion
Taken.

116 co-sp.

SupporT.
Urge co-
Sponsorship.

 

H.R. 1353
(Dyson/D-MO)
(3/3/87)

ProhibiTs Federal resTrlc-
Tions requiring The hunTing
of migraTory birds using
sTeel shoT, unless a sTaTe
adOst such resTricTions
iTself.

MerchanT
Marine 8
Fisheries
(Jones/D-NC)

Fisheries 8
Wildlife Con-
servaTIon 8 The
EnvironmenT
(STudds/D-MA)

No AcTion
Taken.

16 co-sp.

Oppose.
Express
concern To
RepresenTaTive.

 

H.R. 2724
(Green/R-NY)
(6/18/87)

 

REFUGEE WILDLIFE PROTECTION
ACT: limiTs The killing of
wildlife in The NaTional
Wildlife Refuge SysTem.

 

MerchanT
Marine 8
Fisheries.
(Jones/D-NC)

Fisheries 8 Wild-
life ConservaTion *
8 The EnvironmenT
(STudds/D-MA)

No acTion
Taken.

23 co-sp.

SupporT.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

H.R. 2752
(Marlenee/
R-MT)
(6/23/87)

 

Encourages farmers To devoTe

 

a porTion of Their crOpIands
To wildlife feeding and forage
areas in order To supply hunT-
ing and Trapping communiTy
wiTh surplus "gene" animals To
kill.

AgriculTure
(de la Garza/

CoTTon, Rice,
and Sugar
(Huckaby/D-LA)

WheaT, Soybeans,
8 Feed G'ains *
(GIickman/D-KS)

No acTion
Taken.

9 co-sp.

Oppose.
Express

concern To
RepresenTaTive.

 

H.R. 2999
(Bellenson/
D-CA)
(7/23/87)

ELEPHANT PROTECTION ACT:
ProhibiTs ImporTaTion or
exporTaTion, and cerTain
oTher TransacTions, involv-
ing elephanT producTs.

MerchanT
Marine 8
Fisheries
(Jones/D-NC)

Fisheries 8
Wildlife
ConservaTion 8
The EnvironmenT

’(STudds/D-MA)

No acTion
Taken.

35 co-sp.

SuporT.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

S. 313
(Sasser/D-TN)
(1/14/87)

 

Makes permanenT The duTy-
free imporTaTion of haTTer's
fur.

 

Finance
(BenTsen/
D-TX)

 

 

NoT assigned.

No acTion
Taken.

 

O co-sp.

 

Oppose.
EXpress
concern To
SenaTors.

 

 

 




ALLIANCE
P.O. Box 75116

Washingfon, DC 20013-5116

(703) 684-0654

LEGISLATIVE SUIVMARY
100fh Congress: Charf #6

= Where bill is presenfly residing

Bills which need immediafe affenfion;

see "commenfs" column.

Summary.

Dafe:

Page:

Change in Sfafus/Commenfs since previous

8/31/87

3 of 8

 

SPONSOR

BILL NO. & .

SUB JECT

COMMITTEE
& CHAIR

SUBCOMWITTEE
& CHAIR

STATUS 8. 11‘ 1

OF CO-SPON

COMMENTS

 

S. 539
(DoIe/R-KS)
(2/19/87)

TRADE, EMPLOYMENT & PRODUC~

prohibifion which now exisfs
againsf fhe imporfafion from
Sovief Union of skins of
seven species of fur-bearing
animals.

TlVlTY ACT: Omnibus bill which
includes a provision fo remove

Noi assigned.

Nof assigned.

Senafe
floor vofe
pending.

2 co-sp.

Oppose
provision.
Express
concern fo
Senafors.

 

80.]. Res. 12
(Cransfon/D-CA)
(1/6/87)

Esfablishes a nafional policy
for Taking of scavenging

 

mammals/birds on public lands.

Environmenf &
Public Works *
(Burdick/D-ND)

 

 

Nof assigned.

 

No acfion
faken.
0 co-sp.

 

Supporf.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

LEGISLATION PERTAINING TO WILDLIFE: MARINE MAMMALS

 

H.R. 474
(Hughes/D-NJ)
(1/7/87)

PLASTIC WASTE STUDY ACT:
requesfs The Environmenfal
Profecfion Agency and fhe
Nafional Oceanic and
Afmospheric Adminisfrafion
sfudy The adverse effecfs
of dumping plasfic in fhe
environmenf.

Energy &
Commerce
(Dingeil/
D-Ml)

Merchanf
Marine &
Fisheries
(Jones/D-NC)

Science, Space
& Technology
(Fuqua/D-FL)

Transporfafion,

Tourism, Hazardous

Maferials
(Luken/D-OH)

Fisheries & Wild-
life Conservafion
& fhe Environmenf
(Sfudds/D-MA)

Nafural
Agriculfural

Research & *

Environmenf
(Scheuer/D-NY)

Resources,

*

*

No acfion
faken.

2 co-sp.

Supporf.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

HoR. 537
(Benneff/D-FL)
(1/8/87)

8. 62
(STevens/D-AK)
(1/6/87)

DRIFTNET IMPACT MONITORING
ASSESMENT AND CONTROL ACT:
reduces adverse impacf of
driffnefs.

Companion Bill fo H.R. 537.

L _______________

Merchanf
Marine

& Fisheries
(Jones/D-NC)

Commerce,
Science &
Transporfafion
(Hollings/D-SC)

Fisheries & Wild-
life Conservation
8. fhe Env ironmen’r
(Sfudds/DcMA)

Nof assigned.

No acfion
faken.

49 co-sp.

Commiffee
hearings
4/87.
Mark-up
pending.
6 co-sp.

Supporf.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

#- ——————
Supporf.

Urge co-

sponsorship.

.I

 

H.R. 562
(Hughes/D-NJ)
(1/8/87)

Amends Tifle i of Marine
Profecfion, Research and
Sancfuaries Acf of 1972,
--addresses problem of
ocean dumping and
piasfic pollufion.

Merchanf
Marine

8 Fisheries
(Jones/D-NC)

Fisheries & Wild-

life Conservafion *

& fhe Environmenf
(Sfudds/D-MA)

Oceanography
(Lowry/D-WA)

No acfion
faken.

2 co-sp.

Supporf.
Urge co-

sponsorship.

 

H.R. 940
(Sfudds/D-MA)
(2/3/87)

PLASTIC POLLUTION RESEARCH
AND CONTRO. ACT: Provides
for regulafion of disposable
plasfic maferlals & ofher
garbage af sea, and negofia-
fion & research regarding
fishing wifh plasfic driff-
nefs.

Merchanf
Marine &
Fisheries
(Jones/D-NC)

Coasf Gu ard &
Navigafion
(Huffo/D-FL)

Fisheries & Wild-

life Conservafion *

& fhe Ehvironmenf
(Sfudds/D-MA)

Hearings
held 7/23.

66 co-sp.

Supporf.
Urge co-

sponsorship.

 

H.R. 1627 _
(Roe/D-NJ)
(3/16/87)

Aufhorizes apprOpriafions for
fiscal year 1988 & 1989 for
fhe Marine Profecfion, Re-
search, and Sanctuaries Acf

 

.of 1972.

Merchanf
Marine

& Fisheries
(Jones/D-NC)

Science, Space
Technology *
(Fuqua/D-FL)

Fisheries & Wild-
life Conservafion
& fhe Environmenf
(Sfudds/D-MA)

Oceanography
(Lowry/D-WA)

Nof assigned.

No acfion
taken.

Supporf.

 

Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

 

 

H.Con.Res. 18

(Roe/D-NJ)

Urges moraforium on
commercial killing of
whales.

 

(2/26/87)

Foreign Affairs
(FasceII/D-FL)

 

Human Righfs
(Yafron/D-PA)

 

lNo acfion

faken.

 

2 co-sp.

Support.
Urge co-

 

 

sponsorship.

 

LEGISLATION PERTAINING TO WILDLIFE AND/OR THE ENVIRONMENT

 

H.R. 39
(Udall/D-AZ)
til/6.87)

 

 

Designafes cerfain lands in
Alaska as wilderness.

Inferior &
insular Affairs

 

(Udall/D-AZ)

 

Wafer & Power
Resources
(Miller/D-CA)

 

No acfion
Taken.
88 co-sp.

Supporf.
Urge co-
sponsorship

 

 

l

 

 




ALLIANCE

P.0. Box 75116
Washington, DC
(703) 684-0654

20013-5116

LEGISLATIVE SUMMARY
100th Congress: Chart #6

Where bill is presently residing
Bills which need immediate attention;

see "comments" column.
Change in Status/Comments since previous

Summary.

Date: 8/31/87

Page: 4 of 8

 

BILL NO. 8
SPONSOR

1

SUBJECT

COMVI I TTEE
8 CHAIR

8 CHAIR

SUBCOMWITTEE

OF CO-SPON

STATUS 8 f 4

COMMENTS

 

H.R. 184
(Lewis/R-FL)
(1/6/87)

(Chiles/D-FL)
(1/6/87)

BIG CYPRUS NATIONAL PRESERVE
ADDITION ACT: establishes
the Big Cyprus National Pre-
serve Addition in Florida to
enhance preservation of the
Everglades.

Companion Bill to H.R.

Interior 8
Insular Affairs
(Udall/D-AZ)

r‘ ________
Energy 8

Natural

Resources
(Johnston/D-LA)

Energy and
Environment
(Udall/D-AZ)

Not assigned.

b-—.——_——_.——

Passed in
3/87.

floor vote
pending.

1 co-sp.

deletion of
provision for
hunting and
trapping.

 

H.R. 705
(Tallon/D-SC)
(1/21/87)

Recognizes organization known
as "Wildlife Action, Inc."
which practices resource man-
agement. '

Judiciary
(Rodino/D-NJ)

Relations
(Frank/D-MA)

Administrative Law
and Governmental

*

No action

0 co-sp.

Oppose.
Express
concern to
Representative

 

H.R. 873
(Michel/R-IL)
(1/29/87)

Rescinds budgetary authority
in amount of $20,500,000 for
Fish 8 Wildlife Service for

resource management.

ApprOpriations
(Whitten/D-MS) *

Not assigned.

No action
taken.

0 oo-sp.

Support.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

H.R. 874
(Michel/R-IL)
(1/29/87)

Rescinds budgetary authority
in amount of $23,200,000 for
Fish 8 Wildlife Service for
construction.

ApprOpriations
(Whitten/D-MS) *

Not assigned.

No action
taken.

Oc0$p.

Support.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

H.R. 875
(Michel/R-lL)
(1/29/87)

Rescinds budgetary authority
in amount of $26,762,000 for
Fish 8 Wildlife Service for
land acquisition.

ApprOpriations
(Whitten/D-MS) *

Not assigned.

No action
taken.

0 CO'Sp 0

Support.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

H.R. 1082
(Young/R-AL)
(2/11/87)

ARCTIC COASTAL PLAIN LEASING
ACT: authorizes Secretary of
Interior to lease coastal land
in Arctic Wildlife Refuge for
oil and gas exploration.

Interior 8
Insular
Affairs
(Udall/D-AZ)

Water 8 Power
(Miller/D-CA)

No action
taken.

Oppose.

Express

concern to
Representative.

Fisheries 8 Wild-
life Conservation *
8 the Ehvironment

Merchant
Marine 8
Fisheries

(Jones/D-NC)

(Studds/D-MA)

145 co-sp.

 

H.R. 1100
(Michel/D-IL)
(2/11/87)

Authorizes affiliated status
with hational Park Service for
Wildlife Prairie Park in
Illinois.

Interior 8
Insular
Affairs
(Udall/D-AZ)

National Parks
8 Public Lands
(Vento/D-MN)

Passed
house 6/29.
Referred to
Senate
Energy 8
Natural
Resource
Committee.
0 co-sp.

Support.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

H.R. 1467
(Studds/DtMA)
(3/5/87)

(Mitchell/D-ME)
(3/6/87)

 

Authorizes appropriations to
carry out the Endangered
Species Act of 1973 for years
1988 through 1992.

 

Companion Bill to H.R. 1467.

Merchant
Marine 8

and Fisheries
(Jones/D-NC)

Environment 8
Public Works
(Burdick/D-ND)

and Environment
(Studds/D-MA)

Environmental
Protection
(Mitchell/D-ME)

Fisheries and Wild-
life Conservation *

Hearings
held in
3/87.
Mark-up
pending.

Hearings
held in
4/87.
Mark-up
pending.
13 co-sp.

Urge Rep-
resentative
and Senators
to increase
funding and
to Oppose

any weakening
amendments.

 

H.R. 1481
(Darden/D-GA)
(3/9/87)

PUBLIC RANGE LANDS FEE ACT:
Establishes fees for domestic

livestock on public range
lands. Will increase cost to
be in line with private land
prices.

Interior 8
Insular
Affairs
(Udall/D-AZ)

National Parks
8 Public Lands
(Vento/D-MN)

*

Hearings
scheduled
for
9/22/87.

14 (to-Sp.

Support.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

H.R. 1506
(I-bward/D-NJ)
(3/10/87)

(Bradley/D-NJ)
(3/10/87)

 

SIOUX NATION BLACK HILLS ACT:
reaffirms boundaries of the
Great Sioux Reservation and
establishes a wildlife
sanctuary in the Black Hills.

Companion Bill to H.R. 1506.

 

ﬁunting provisions included.

Interior and
Insular
Affairs
(Udall/D-AZ)

(lnouye/D-Hl)

Not assigned.

Not assigned.

 

 

No action
taken.

No action
taken.

 

2 co-sp.

Support.

Oppose
hunting

provisions.

P-—_———--—.———I

Oppose any
hunting

 

provisions.

 

 

 




ALL'ANCE
13.0. BOX 75116

Washingfon, DC 20013-5116

(703) 684-0654

LEGISLATIVE SUMMARY
iOth Congress: Charf #6

Where bill is presenfiy residing
Bills which need immediafe affenfion;
see "commenfs" column.
Change in Sfafus/Commenfs since previous

Summary.

Dafe: 8/31/87

Page:

5 of 8

 

BILL NO. &
SPONSOR

SUBJECT

COIVM I TTEE
& CHAIR

SUBCONM l TTEE
& CHAIR

OF CO-SPON

SMWS&#.

COMMENTS

 

H.R. 1564
(Tauzin/D-LA)
(3/11/87)

COASTAL WETLANDS RECOVERY ACT:
Requires fhe Secrefary of fhe
Army, acfing fhrough The Chief
of Engineers, fo idenfify cer-
fain fhreafened coasfai wef-
Iands, and prepare a wefland
plan of acfion.

Merchanf
Marine &
Fisheries
(Jones/D-NC)

& fhe Environmen
(Sfudds/D-MA)

Fisheries & Wild-
Iife Conservafion *

1.

No acfion
faken.

0 co-sp.

Supporf.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

H.R. 1899
(Marlenee/
R-MT)
(4/1/87)

Makes permanenf fhe formula
for defermining fees for graz-
ing of livesfock on public
rangelands.

Inferior &
insular
Affairs
(Udall/D-AZ)

Nafional Parks
& Public Lands
(Venfo/D-MN)

Hearings
scheduled
9/22/87.
22 co-sp.

 

H.R. 1983
(Benneff/D-FL)
(4/8/87)

p-~—————-¢———.u——

S. 1367
(Chiles/D-FL)
(6/16/87)

Aufhorizes fhe Secrefary of

fhe Inferior fo preserve cer-
fain wefIand and hisforic and
prehisforic sifes in fhe ST.
John's River Valley, Florida,
and permifs boafing acfivifies,
hunfing and fishing.

Companion bill fo H.R. 1983.

Inferior &
Insular
Affairs
(Udall/D-AZ)

Nafural
Resources
(Johnsfon/D-LA)

Public Lands
(Venfo/D-MN) *

Public Lands,

& Feresfs
(Bumpers/D-AR)

Nafional Parks &

Nafional Parks,
*

Passed
House in
7/87.
Referred
fo Senafe.

18 co-Sp.

No acfion
Taken.

1 co-sp.

(See commenfs
below.)

L. ______
Oppose boaf-
ing, hunfing
and Trapping
provisions.

--1

 

H.R. 2621
(Synar/D-OK)
(6/4/87)

PUBLIC RANGELANDS FEE ACT:
Esfablishes grazing fees
for domesfic livesfock on
public rangelands.

Inferior &
Insular
Affairs
(Udall/D-AZ)

Nafionai Parks &
Public Lands
(Venfo/D-MN)

*

Hearings
scheduled
9/22/87.
0 co-sp.

Currenfiy
being
researched.

 

H.R. 2991
(Sfudds/D-MA)
(7/22/87)

Clarifies fhe aufhorify of

fhe Secrefary of fhe Infer-
ior f0 make land exchanges

wifhin fhe Arcfic Nafional

Wildlife Refuge.

Inferior & *
Insular Affairs
(Udall/D-AZ)

Merchanf
Marine &
Fisheries
(Jones/D-NC)

Nof yef assigned

Nof yef assigned.

No acfion
faken.

1 CO‘Sp o

Currenfiy
being
researched.

 

H.R. 3008
(Miller/D-CA)
(7/23/87)

Clarifies aufhorify of The
Secrefary of fhe Inferior
To make land exchanges
wifhin fhe Arcfic Nafioni;
Wildlife Rbfuge.

Inferior &
Insular Affairs
(Udall/D-AZ)

Merchanf
Marine &
Fisheries
(Jones/D-NC)

Wafer and waer
Resources
(Miller/D-CA)

(Sfudds/D-MA)

*

Fisheries & Wild—
life Conservafion *
8. fhe Env ironmenf

No acfion
Taken.

2 co-sp.

Currenfly
being
researched.

 

H.R. 3010
(Porfer/R-IL)
(7/23/87)

(Kasfen/R-WI)
((7/23/87)

TRCPICAL WETLAND AND RAINFOREST
PROTECTION ACT: requires Sec-
refary of fhe Treasury fo pro-
vide fufure conservafion sfraf-
agies, and urges The World Bank
fo adOpf a rogram to provide
debf relief in exchange for
conservafion profecfion and
pracfices.

Companion bill fo H.R. 3010.

Banking
(ST Germain/
D-RI)

Foreign
Relafions
(PeII/D-RI)

lnfernafional
Finance
(Garcia/D-NY)

lnfernafionai
DeveIOpmenf
(Faunfroy/D-DC)

Nof yef assigned.

No acfion
faken.

No acfion
faken.
1 co-sp.

Supporf.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

sponsorship.

 

S. 252

(De Concini/
D-AZ)
(1/6/87)

Esfablishes San Pedro
Riparian NafionaI
Conservafion Area.

Energy &
Nafural
Resources
(Johnsfon/D-LA)

Public Lands
(Bumpers/D-AR)

 

Hearings
held 4/87.
Mark-up
pending.

1 co-sp.

Supporf.
Urge co-
Sponsorship.

 

 

 

S. 398
(Symms/R-ID)
(1/28/87)

FEDERAL PESTICIDE PROGRAM
IMPROVEMENT ACT: amends FlFRA
(Federal lnsecficide, fungi-
cide, and Rodenf Acf) fo per-
mif federal agencies fo use
pesflcides wifhouf duplicafing
research or analysis of EPA
under fhaf Acf.

Agriculfure *

(Leahy/D-VT)

Nof assigned.

No acfion
faken.

1 co-sp.

Supporf.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

S. 559
(Chaffee/R~RI)
(2/19/87)
(Previously

S 534).

 

PLASTIC WASTE REDUCTION AND
DISPOSAL ACT: Requires EBA
fo conducf sfudy of measures
available fo reduce adverse
effecf discarding/dumping
pIasfics on land & in wafer
has on environmenf, fish,
wildlife; makes reconnenda—

‘fions for eliminafing or Ies-

sening adverse effecfs; and
requires EPA fo confroi pol-
quion of environmenf caused
by discarding of plasfics on

 

Environmenf *
& Public Works
(Burdick/D-ND)

 

land and in wafer.

Nof assigned.

 

 

Hearings
scheduled
for
9/17/87.

Supporf.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




    

A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
   

    
   
 
    

       
  
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

ALLIANCE LEGISLATIVE SUM4ARY Date: 8/31/87
P.0. Box 75116 100th Congress: Chart #6
Washington, DC 20013-5116 Page: 6 of 8
(703) 684-0654 KEY: * = Where bill is presently residing
! = Bills which need immediate attention;
see "comments" column.
C = Change in Status/Comments since previous
Summary.
BILL NO. & d i COMMITTEE v SUBCOMWITTEE STATUS & #
SPONSG? SUBJECT 8. O-IAIR . 8. CHAIR OF CO-SPON COMMENTS
S. 560 Prohibits the dumping in U.S. Environment * iNot yet assigned. Hearings Support.
(Chafee/R-RI) waters of any plastics, gar- & Public Works ; ' scheduled Urge co-
(2/19/87) bage, synthetic rcpes, synth- for sponsorship.
(Previously etic fishing nets, plastic 9/17/87.
5. 535). garbage bags, etc. 7 co-Sp.
S. 633 PLASTIC POLLUTION CONTROL ACT: Environment & Not assigned. No action Support.
(Lautenberg/ Prohibits disposal of plastic Public Works taken. Urge co-
D-NJ) products in waters under the (Burdick/D-ND) sponsorship.
(3/3/87) jurisdiction of the U.S. Re-
quires study to determine ways
to eliminate plastic pollution.
Requires public awareness pro-
gram about plastic pollution.
implements Annex 5 of the In-
ternational Convention for pre-
vention of pollution from ships
as modified by protocol of 1978. 3 co-sp.
S. 693 GREAT SMOKEY MOUNTAIN WILD- Energy & Public Lands, Subcommittee Ehpport.
(Sasser/D-TN) ERNESS ACT: designates 467,000 Natural National Parks, hearings Urge co-
(3/10/87) acres of the Great Smokey Resources & Ferests 6/23. sponsorship.
Mountain National Park as (Johnston/D-LA) (Bumpers/D-AR)
wilderness & settles private
claims against the park. 2 co-sp.
S. 695 Allows permanent access Energy & Public Lands, Hearings Oppose.
(Helms/R-NC) via roadway in wilderness Natural National Parks, 6/23.
(3/10/87) areas. Resources & FOrests
(Johnston/D-LA) (Bumpers/D-AR) 10 co-sp. 22
LEGISLATION PERTAINING T0 FACTORY FARMED ANIMALS
H.R. 358 Amends Beef Research & Infor- Agriculture Livestock, No action Not a
(Jeffords/ mation Act. Would prohibit (de la Garza/ Dairy & Poultry taken. priority
R-VT) assessment on cattle that D-TX) (StenhoIm/D-TX) bill.
(1/6/87) are ten or fewer days old on
:me day of sale. 3 oo-Sp.
S. 674 Companion Bill to H.R. 358. Agriculture * Not assigned. No action Not a
(Leahy/D-VT) (Leahy/D-VT) taken. priority
(3/6/87) 0 co-sp. bill.
H.R. 2859 VEAL CALF PROTECTION ACT: Agriculture Livestock, No action Support.
(Bennett/D-FL) prohibits certain practices (de la Garza/ Dairy & Poultry taken. Urge co-
(7/1/87) in the raising of calves for D-TX) (Stenhoim/D-TX) sponsorship.
veal, and for other purposes. 35 co-Sp.
H.R. 2920 FEDERAL MEAT INSPECTION ACT Agriculture Livestock, Dairy * No action Support.
(Lewis/R-FL) AMENDMENTS: amends said act (de la Garza/ and Poultry taken. Urge co~
(7/13/87) by requiring meat and meat D-TX) (Stenholm/D-TX) sponsorship.
products be labeled as to
country of origin. 0 co-sp.
H. Res. 198 Encourages Americans to Agriculture Livestock, No action Oppose.
(Grandy/R-iA) consume meat and meat (de la Garza/ Dairy 8 Poultry taken. EXpress
(6/17/87) products. D-TX) (Stenholm/D-TX) concern to
‘Representative.
Domestic Marketing
(Panetta/D-CA) 22 co-sp.
S.J. Res. 14 Designates the third week in Judiciary * Not assigned. Subcommittee Not a
(Heims/R-NC) June of each year as "National (BIden/D-DE) hearings on priority
(1/6/87) Dairy (bat Awareness Week". 6/23. bill.
52 co-sp.
is. 680 ANIMAL FEED PROTECTION ACT: Labor & i-bman Not assigned. No action Support.
’(Chafee/R-Rl) prohibits the use of subther- Resources * taken. Urge 50’
(3/6/87) apeutic doses of penicillin, (Hatch/R-UT) Sponsorship.
‘ chlortetracycline, & oxy—
tetracysline in animal feed. 3 cn-Sp.
\ . 980 TProhibits the importation of Finance * Not assigned. No action Support.
(Symms/R-ID) beef, veal or lamb from New (Bentsen/D-TX) taken. Urge co-
i(4/9/87) \Zealand or Australia. 0 co-sp. sponsorship.

 

 

Please also refer to H.R. 3119 and H.R. 3233 in "Animals in Laboratories" category.

 

LEGISLATION PERTAINING TO COMPANION ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

H.J.Res. 287 Directs the Sbcretary of Agriculture Deparhnent (pera- No action Support.
(Lujan/R-NM) Agriculture to conduct (de la Garza/ tions, Research, taken. Urge co~
(5/20/87) a study of the effectiveness D-TX) and Foreign sponsorship.
of the Animal Welfare Act to Agriculture
protect against puppy mills. (Brown/D-CA) 26 co-sp.

 

 
  

 

   

Please also refer to H.R. 778 and S. 1457 in "Animals in Laboratories" category.

 

 

 

 

 




ALLIANCE

P.0. Box 75116
Washington, DC
(703) 684—0654

20013-5116

LEGISLATIVE SUMMARY
100th Congress: Chart #6

= Where bill is presently residing

Bills which need immediate attention;
see "comments" column.

Change in Status/Comments since previous

Summary.

Date: 8/31/87

Page:

7 of 8

 

BILL NO. &
SPONSOR

SUBJECT

 

COMMITTEE
& CHAIR

 

SUBCOMWITTEE
& CHAIR

 

 

STATUS & #
OF CO‘SPON

 

COMMENTS

 

LEGISLATION PERTAINING TO ANIMALS USED IN ENTERTAINMENT

 

H. R. 1433
(Dornan/R-CA)
(3/5/87)

ANTI-LIVE ANIMAL LURE ACT:
Amends the Animal Welfare Act
to prohibit dog racing and dog
Training involving the use of
live animals as visual lures

& makes the Act applicable to
facilities that are used for
dog racing or dog training.

 

Agriculture
(Leahy/D-VT)

 

Department
Operations,
Research and
Foreign Agri-
culture
(Brown/D-CA)

 

 

No action
taken.

 

Support.
Urge co-
sponsorship.

 

Please also refer to H.R. 3233 in "Animals in Laboratories" category.

 

AFPROPRIATIONS BILLS

 

Funding for
Enforcement of
Animal Welfare
Act

FY88 - House
(unnumbered)

Funding for
Enforcement of
Animal Welfare
Act

FY88 - Senate
(unnumbered)

ApprOpriations for the Lhited
States Department of Agric-
ulture (USDA)/Animal Plant
Health Inspection Services
(APHIS) enforcement.

Same as above.

Appropriations
(Whitten/D-MS)

Appropriations
(Stennis/D-MS)

Agriculture, Rural
DeveIOpment and
Related Agencies *
(Whitten/D-MS)

h—o—uo—_———.—c_qu-———-_‘-——--

Agriculture, Rural
DeveIOpment and
Related Agencies *
(Burdick/D-ND)

Subcommittee
hearings
held 4/87.
Mark-up
anticipated
in 9/87.

Subcommittee
hearings
held 4/87.
Mark-up
anticipated
in 9/87.

lrge Rap-
resentative
and Senators
to increase
funding.

i

 

 

Funding for

NIH and NlMH
F Y88 - House
(unnumbered)

Funding for
NIH & NlMH
FY88 - Senate
(unnumbered)

Appropriations for Health and
Human Services Departments:
National Institutes of Health
and National Institutes of
Mental lealth. Note: Over
40% of all NIH grants involve
research using animals.

Same as above.

ApprOpriations
(Whitten/D-MS)

ApprOprlations
(Stennis/D-MS)

Labor, Health &
Human Services,
Education
(Natcher/D-KY)

Human Services,
Education
(Chiles/D-FL)

l- __________
Labor, Health &

Passed
House on
8/5/87.

 

i

i
I
0

I

Subcommittee
hearings
held 5/87.
Mark up
anticipated
In 9/87.

Urge Rep-
resentatives
and Senators

:to appropriate

funds only
for techno-
logically

advanced
research and
deny funding
for the
National
Chimpanzee
Management
Plan.

 

Funding for
hunting and
trapping on
Wildlife
Refuges

FY88 - House
(unnumbered)

Funding for
hunting and
trapping on
Wildlife
Refuges

FY - Senate
(unnumbered)

ApprOpriations for Fish and
Wildlife Service.

Same as above.

ApprOpriations
(Whitten/D-MS)

Appropriations
(Stennis/D-MS)

Interior
(Yates/D-IL)

interior and
Related Agencies *
(Byrd/D-WV)

Passed
House

hearings
held 4/87.
Mark-up

Subcommittee

Continue
to urge

and Senators

'to deny

funding.

 

anticipated
in 9/87.

Representative

 

 

Funding for
round-up of
wild horses
and burros
FY88 - House
(unnumbered)

Funding for
round—up of
wi ld horses
and burros
FY88 - Senate
(unnumbered)

 

Appropriations for Bureau of
Land Management (BUM) to round
up an additional 10,000 wild
horses and burros.

Same as above.

 

b—_-—-_‘-.——--——__——

ApprOpriations
(Whitten/D-MS)

.1
ApprOpriations
(Stennis/D-MS)

 

 

 

Interior
(Yates/D-IL)

Interior and
Related Agencies *
(Byrd/D-WV)

 

Passed House
in 6/87.
includes

$5 million
to round-up
wild horses
and burros.
Also inclLd-
es provision
that no mon-
ey be spent
on euthaniz-
ing healthy
animals.

hearings
held 3/87.
Mark-up
anticipated
in 9/87.

 

Subcommittee

Continue
to urge

and Senators
to delete
funding for
round-ups.

 

 

Representative

 

 

 

 




 

ALLIANCE LEGISLATIVE SUMMARY Date: 8/31/87
P.O. Box 75116 100th Congress: Chart #6

Washington, DC 20013-5116 Page: 8 of 8
(703) 684-0654 KEY: * = Where bill is presently residing

Bills which need immediate attention;
see "comments" column.

 

C = Change in Status/Comments since previous
Summary.
BILL NO. & l 4 COMMITTEE i SUBCOMWITTEE 1 STATUS & f l
SPONSOR SUBJECT 8. O-IAIR & O-IAIR 0F CO-SPCN COMMENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

BILLS PASSED IN THE iOOTH CONGRESS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Funding for Includes amendment denying Appropriations Commerce, .hstice, Passed both See H.R. 3ii9
U.S Patent funding for patenting of (Whitten/D-MS) State and Judiciary chambers. on Page i for
and Trademark vertebrate and invertebrate (Smith/D-IA) Amendment further devel-
Office animals modified, altered, or defeated in 0pment on this
FY88 - House in any way changed, through conference issue.
(H.R. 1827) engineering technology, in- comnittee.
eluding genetic engineering. However,
Patent Of-
fice agreed
to extend
moratorium
through
+_ __ . Spring ‘88.
Funding for Same as above. ApprOpriations Commerce, .hstice
U.S. Patent (Stennis/D-MS) State, The Judiciary
and Trademark and Related Agencies
Office ‘ (Hollings/D-SC)
FY83 - Senate
H. J. Res. 17 Designates the third week in Post Office & Census and Passed and
(de la Garza/ June, I987 as "National Dairy Civil Service POpulation signed in
D-TX) Goat Awareness Week". (Ford/D-KY) (Garcia/D-NY) 6/87.
(1/6/87) PL 100-57
- 176 co-sp.

‘ @1987 National Alliance for Animal Legislation
5‘25”

 




V _
IOOTH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION .5. 90

_ To establish the Big Cypress National Preserve Addition in the State of Florida,
and for other purposes.

 

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

JANUARY 6, 1987

Mr. CHILES (for himself and Mr. GRAHAM) introduced the following bill; which
was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

 

A BILL

To establish the Big Cypress National Preserve Addition in the

State of Florida, and for other purposes.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

(a) SHORT TITLE—This Act may be cited as the “Big
Cypress National Preserve Addition Act”.

(b) AMENDMENT OF BIG CYPRESS NATIONAL PRE-
SERVE ACT.——Whenever in this Act an amendment is ex-
pressed in terms of an amendment to the Act of October 11,

197 4, such amendment shall be considered to be made to the

 




2
Act entitled “An Act to establish the Big Cypress National
Preserve in the State of Florida, and for other purposes”,
approved October 11, 1974 (Public Law 93—440; 88 Stat.
1257).
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
(a) FINDINGS—The Congress finds that——

(1) the planned construction of Interstate 75 is
presently being designed in such a way as to improve
the natural water flow to the Everglades National-

. Park, which has been diSrupted by State Road 84
(commonly known as “Alligator Alley”);

(2) the planned construction of Interstate 75 pro-
vides an opportunity to enhance protection of the Ev-
erglades National Park, to promote protection of the
endangered Florida panther, and to provide for public
recreational use and enjoyment of public lands by ex-
panding the Big Cypress National Preserve to include
those lands adjacent to Interstate 75 in Collier County

north and east of the Big Cypress National Preserve,

west of the Broward County line, and south of the

Hendry County line;

(3) the Federal acquisition of lands bordering the
Big Cypress National Preserve in conjunction with the
construction of Interstate 75 would provide significant

public benefits by limiting development pressure on

 




  

,3

lands which are important both in terms of fish and

ndangered species and of

of the Big Cypress

wildlife habitat supporting e

wetlands which are the headwaters

National Preserve; and
(4) public ownership of lands adjacent to the Big

Cypress National Preserve would enhance the protec—

tion of the Everglades National Park while providing

recreational opportunities and other public uses cur-

offered by the Big Cypress National Preserve.

rently

10 (b) PUR
11 the Big Cypress N

POSE.———It is the purpose of this Act to establish

ational Preserve Addition.

12 SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF ADDITION.

13 The Act of October 11, 1974, is amended by adding at
14 the end thereof the following new section: 0 ‘
15 “SEC. 9. (a) In order to———'
16 “(1) achieve the purposes of the first section of
17 this Act;
18 “(2) complete the preserve in conjunction with the
19 planned construction of Interstate Highway 75; and
20 “(3) insure appropriately managed use and access
21 to the Big Cypress Watershed in the State of Florida,
22 the Big Cypress National Preserve Addition is established.
23 “(b) The Big Cypress National Preserve Addition (re-

24 ferred to in this Act as the ‘Addition’) shall comprise approxi-

depicted on the map enti—

25 mately 136,000 aeres as generally

    




QDOO-qmmi-wai—t

wwwmeHr—‘l—‘HHHHHH
thwwwocooo-qczmipwwi-Ao

4

tled Big Cypress National Preserve Addition, dated June,

1986, and numbered 176—91000B, which shall be on file and
available for public inspection in the Office of the National
Park Service, Department of the Interior, Washington, DO,
and shall be filed with appropriate offices of Collier County in
the State of Florida. The Secretary shall, as soon as practica-
ble, publish a detailed description of the boundaries of the
Addition in the Federal Register.

“(c) The area within the boundaries depicted on the map
referred to in subsection (b) shall be known as the Big Oy-
press National Preserve Addition”.

SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATION OF ADDITION.

(a) UNIT OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM—The Act
of October 11, 1974, is amended by adding at the end thereof
the following new section:

“SEC. 10. (a) The Secretary shall administer the Addi-
tion in accordance with this Act and the provisions of law
generally applicable to units of the national park system, in-
cluding the Act entitled ‘An Act to establish a National Park
Service, and for other purposes’, approved August 25, 1916
(39 Stat. 585; 16 U.S.C. 1—4).

“(b) In administering the Addition, the Secretary shall
develop and publish in the Federal Register such rules and

regulations as the Secretary deems necessary and appropri-

059015

 




5
1 ate to manage and control the use of Federal lands
2 waters with respect to——
“(1) motorized vehicles;
“(2) exploration for and extraction of oil, gas, and
‘ other minerals;
“(3) grazing and agriculture;
“(4) draining or constructing of works or struc—
tures which alter the natural water courses;
“(5) recreational uses, including hunting, fishing,

I

and trapping, which shall be promoted and encouraged;

 

“(6) new construction of any kind; and
“(7) such other uses as the Secretary determines

must be limited or controlled in order to carry out the

purposes of this Act.

“(c) For purposes of administering the Addition and not-
withstanding section 2(c), it is the express intent of the Con-
gress that the Secretary should substantially complete the
land acquisition program contemplated with respect to the
Addition in not more than five years after the date of the
enactment of this paragraph”.

(b) HUNTING, FISHING, AND TRAPPING.——Section 5 of
the Act of October 11, 1974, is amended by inserting “and
the Addition” after “preserve” each place it appears.

(0) SUITABILITY AS WILDERNESS—Section 7 of the

25 Act of October 11, 1974, is amended——

 




  

r—L ”

10
11
12
13
14

16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
23
24

 

QCD-QCDOIHBOON)

Florida transfers to the Secretary lands within the Addition,

6
(1) by inserting “with respect to the preserve and
five years from the date of the enactment of the Big
Cypress National Preserve Addition Act with respect
to the Addition” after “date of the enactment of this

Act” in the first sentence; and

(2) by inserting “or the area within the Addition
(as the case may be)” after “preserve” each place it
appears.

(d) INDIAN RIGHTs.—Section 6 of the Act of October
11, 1974, is amended as follows:

(1) In clause (i) insert “and the Addition” after
“preserve” and insert “(January 1, 1985, in the case
of the Addition)” after “1972”. _

(2) In. clause (ii) insert “or within the Addition”
after “preserve”.

SEC. 5. ACQUISITION OF LAND WITHIN ADDITION.

(a) UNITED STATES SHARE OF ACQUISITION
COSTS.——The first section of the Act. of October 11, 1974, is
amended by adding at the end thereof the following new sub-
section:

“(d)(1) The aggregate cost to -the United States of ac-
quiring lands within the Addition may not exceed 80 percent
of the total cost of such lands.

“(2)Except as provided in paragraph (3), if the State of

 
    
   
  
  
  
   
    
    
  




CDCIJ-QO'DCRI-PODNJH

l—‘II—l
t-‘O

7
the Secretary shall pay to or reimburse the State of Florida

(out of funds appropriated for such purpose) an amount equal
to 80 percent of the total costs to the State of Florida of
acquiring such lands.

“(3) The amount described in paragraph (1) shall be re-
duced by an amount equal to 20 percent of the amount of the
total cost incurred by the Secretary in acquiring lands in the
Addition other than from the State of Florida.

“(4) For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘total
cost’ means that amount of the total acquisition costs (includ-

ing the value of exchanged or donated lands) less the amount

_ of the costs incurred by the Federal Highway Administration

and the FloridaDepartment of Transportation, including sev-

erance damages paid to private property owners as a result of
the construction of Interstate 75.”.

(1)) METHODS OF LAND ACQUISITION IN THE ADDI-
TION.—The first sentence of subsection (c) of the first section
of the Act of October 11, 197 4, is amended—-

(1) by inserting “or the Addition” after “pre-
serve” the first place it appears; and
(2) in the first proviso-—
(A) by inserting “in the preserve” after
“subdivisions,”; and
(B) by striking out the colon and inserting in

lieu thereof “and, any land acquired by the State

 




 

  
      
     
       
         
       
   
    
    
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 

10

 

1 “(1) the status of the existing preserve, the effec-
2 tiveness of past regulation and management of the pre—
3 serve, and recommendations for future management of
4 the preserve and the Addition;

5 ' “(2) a summary of the public’s use of the preserve
6 and the status of all access rights for public and private
7 use;

8 “(3) the need for involvement of other State and
9 Federal agencies in the management and expansion of
10 the preserve and Addition;

11 “(4) the status of land acquisition; and

12 . “(5) a determination, made in conjunction With
13 the State of Florida, of the adequacy of the number,
14 location, and de-Sign of the recreational access points
15 on I—75/ Alligator Alley for access to the Big Cypress
16 National Preserve, including the Addition.

17 The determination required by paragraph (5) shall incorpo-
18 rate the results of any related studies of the State of Florida
19 Department of Transportation and other Florida State agen-
20 cies. Any recommendation for significant changes in the ap—
21 proved recreational access points, including any proposed ad-
22 ditions, shall be accompanied by an assessment of the envi-
23 ronmental impact of such changes”.

24 SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

Section 8 of the Act of October 11, 1974, is amended-—

[\9
U1

     




11 '
(1) by striking out “There” in the first sentence
and inserting in lieu thereof “(a) Except as provided in

subsection (b), there”; and

(2) by adding at the end thereof the following new

subsection:
“01) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums

as may be necessary to acquire lands Within the Addition”.

0

 




 

 

 
 

M

M
M

Union Calendar No. 22
1002;}; CSONGRESS H R 18 4

[Report No. 100—30]

To establish the Big Cypress National Preserve Addition in the State of Florida,
and for other purposes.

 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

JANUARY 6, 1987
Mr. LEWIS of Florida (for himself, Mr. HUTTO, Mr. GRANT, Mr. BENNETT, Mr.
CHAPPELL, Mr. MCCOLLUM, Mr. MACKAY, Mr. GIBBONS, Mr. YOUNG of
Florida, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. IRELAND, Mr. NELSON of Florida, Mr. MACK,
Mr. MICA, Mr. SHAW, Mr. SMITH of Florida, Mr. LEHMAN of Florida, Mr.
PEPPER, and Mr. FASCELL) introduced the following bill; which was referred
to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs

MARCH 27, 1987

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union and
ordered to be printed

 

A BILL

To establish the Big Cypress National Preserve Addition in the
State of Florida, and for other purposes.

1 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-

2 tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

 




 

 

 

2
3
4
5 SERVE ACT—Whenever in this
6
7
8
9

2
* 1 SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE, ETC.

(a) SHORT TITLE—This

Act may be cited as the “Big
Cypress National Preserve Addition Act”.

(b) AMENDMENT OF BIG CYPRESS NATIONAL PRE-
Act an amendment is
expressed in terms of an amendment to the Act of Octo-
ber 11, 1974, such amendment shall be considered to be
made to the Act entitled “An Act to establish the Big Cy—
press National Preserve in the State of Florida, and for

other purposes”, approved October 11, 1974 (88 Stat.

11 1258; 16 U.S.C. 698f and following). ,

12 SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

13 (a) FINDINGS—The Congress as follows:

14 (1) The planned construction Of Interstate 75 is

15 presently being‘designed in such a way as to improve
16 the natural water flow to the Everglades National
17 Park, which has been disrupted by State Road 84
18 (commonly known as “Alligator Alley”).

19 (2) The planned construction of Interstate 75 pro-
20 vides an opportunity to enhance protection of the Ev-
21 erglades National Park, to promote protection of the
22 ‘ endangered Florida panther, and to provide for public
23 recreational use and enjoyment of public lands by ex-
24 . panding the’Big Cypress National Preserve to include
25 those lands adjacent to Interstate 75 in CollieriCounty
26

 

north and east of the Big Cypress National Preserve,

OHR 184 RH

  

  

. -:«r-*¥MV‘-N ‘ '..'........hm““"“' “M
. _ M4.
, ,,.. .—




3

H

west of the Broward County line, and south of the
Hendry County line.

(3) The Federal acquisition of lands bordering the
Big Cypress National Preserve in conjunction with the
construction of Interstate 75 would provide significant
public benefits by limiting development pressure on
lands which are important both in terms of fish and

wildlife habitat supporting endangered species and of

QDCD-ddbU‘ir-wa

wetlands which are the headwaters of the Big Cypress

y-n
0

National Preserve.

H
b—l

(4) Public ownership of lands adjacent to the Big

.r—t
-L\D

Cypress National Preserve would enhance the protec-

lv-J
0.3 .

tion of the Everglades National Park while providing

H
,4;

recreational opportunities and other public uses our-

H
01

rently offered by the Big Cypress National Preserve.

H
63

(b) PURPOSE—It is the purpose of this Act to estab—

H
.4

lish the Big Cypress National Preserve Addition.

H
00

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF ADDITION.

H
CD

(a) ADDITION.—The Act of October 11, 1974, is

amended by adding at the end thereof the following section:

[\DNJ
I—lo

“SEC. 9. BIG CYPRESS NATIONAL PRESERVE ADDITION.

[\9
[O

“(a) ESTABLISHMENT—In order to-——-

N)
00

“(1) achieve the purposes of the first section of

this Act;

m
,4}.

 

 




 

 

   

4

1 “(2) complete the preserve in conjunction with the

planned construction of Interstate Highway 75; and
“(3) insure appropriately managed use and access

to the Big Cypress Watershed in the State of Florida;

established.

2
3
4
5 the Big Cypress National Preserve Addition is
6
7 “(b) MAP AND BOUNDARIES—The Big Cypress Na-
8 tional Preserve Addition (referred to in this Act as the ‘Ad-
9 dition’) shall comprise approximately 136,000 acres as gen-
10 erally depicted on the map entitled Big Cypress National
11 Preserve Addition, dated June, 1986, and numbered 176—
12 91000B, which shall be on file and available for public in-
13 spection in the Office of the National Park Service, Depart-
14‘ ment of the Interior,Washington, DC, and shall be filed
15 with appropriate offices of Collier County in the State of
16 Florida. The Secretary shall, as soon as practicable, publish
17 a detailed description of the boundaries of the Addition in
18 the Federal Register.
19 ~“((3) ADMINISTRATION—The area within the bound-
20 aries depicted on the map referred to in subsection (b) shall
21 be known as the Big Cypress National Preserve Addition
22 and shall be managed in accordance with section 4.
23 “(d) COMPLETION OF ACQUISITION—For purposes of

24 administering the Addition and notwithstanding section 2(0),

  

 

25 it is the express intent of the Congress that the Secretary

.HR 184 RH

  




5

should substantially complete the land acquisition program
contemplated with respect to the Addition within 5 years
after the date of the enactment of this section”

(b) HUNTING, FISHING, AND TRAPPING—Section 5 of
the Act of October 11, 1974, is amended by inserting “and
the Addition” after “preserve” each place it appears.

(0) SUITABILITY AS WILDERNESS—Section 7 of the
Act of October 11, 1974, is amended-—

(1) by inserting “with respect to the preserve and

5 years from the date of the enactment of the Big Cy-

press National Preserve Addition Act with respect to

the Addition” after “date of the enactment of this. Act”

in the ﬁrst sentence; and

, (2) by “inserting “or the area within the Addition

(as the case may be)” after “preserve” each place it
appears.
((1) INDIAN RIGHTS—Section 6 of the Act of Octo-
ber 11, 1974, is amended as follows:
(1) In clause (i) insert “and the Addition” after
“preserve” and -insert “(January 1, 1985, in the case
of the Addition)” after “1972”.
(2) In clause (ii) insert “or within the Addition”

after “preserve”.

 




  

(Om-QQUTHPQOMI—l

MMMMMMHHHHHHHHHH
urbwwwommqmmrpwwwo

6
SEC. 4. ACQUISITION OF LAND WITHIN ADDITION.

(a) UNITED STATES SHARE OF ACQUISITION
COSTS.—-The first section of the Act of October 11, 1974, is
amended by adding at the end thereof the following new
subsection: ‘ l V

“(d)(1) The aggregate cost to the United States of ac-
quiring lands within the Addition may not exceed 80 percent
of the total cost of such lands.

“(2) Except as provided in paragraph (3), if the State of
Florida transfers to the Secretary lands within the Addition,
the Secretary shall pay to or reimburse the State of Florida
(out of funds appropriated for such purpose) an amount equal
to 80 percent of the total costs to the State of Florida of
acquiring such lands.

“(3) The amount described in paragraph (2) shall be re-
duced by an amount equal to 20 percent of the amount of the
total cost incurred by the Secretary in acquiring lands in the
Addition other than from the State of Florida. .

“(4) For the purposes of this subsection, the term ‘total
cost’ means that amount of the total acquisition costs (includ-
ing the value of exchanged or donated lands) less the amount
of the costs incurred by the Federal Highway Administration
and the Florida Department of Transportation, including sev-
erance damages paid to private property owners as a result of

the construction of Interstate 75.”.

.HR 184 RH

 
    
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
   




8

are each amended by inserting “and the Addition” after

“preserve” each place it appears.

(f) IMPROVED PROPERTY IN ADDITION—Section 8(b)
of the Act of October 11, 1974, is amended—

(1) in paragraph (i) by inserting “with respect to
the preserve and January 1, 1986, with respect to the
Addition” after “November 23, 1971,”; and ‘

(2) in paragraph (ii)—

(A) by inserting “with respect to the pre-
serve and January 1, 1986, with respect to the
Addition” after “November 23, 1971,” the first
place it appears; and

(B) by inserting “or January '1, 1986, as the
case may be,” after “November 23, 1971” the I
second and third places it appears.

SEC. 5. COOPERATION AMONG AGENCIES.

The Act of October 11, 1974, is further amended by
adding at the end thereof the following new section:
“SEC. 10. COOPERATION AMONG AGENCIES.

“The Secretary and other involved Federal agencies
shall. cooperate with the State of Florida to establish recre-
ational access points and roads, rest and recreation areas,
appropriate wildlife protection, and, where appropriate, hunt-
ing, fishing, frogging, and other recreational opportunitiesin *

conjunction with the creation of the Addition and in the con-

 

 

 




CDCIJKIODUIerwi—L

MMMMMNHHHHHHHHIHH
mikwwwocooo-qmmppwwwo

9
struction of Interstate Highway 75. Not more than 3 of such

access points shall be located within the preserve (including
the Addition)”.
SEC. 6. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

The Act of October 11, 1974, is further amended by
adding at the end thereof the following new section:
“SEC. 11. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

“Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment
of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a
detailed report on, and further plan for, the preserve and
Addition. The report and further plan shall include each of

the following:

“(1) The status of the existing preserve, the effec—

tiveness of past regulation and management of the pre-
serve, and recommendations for future management of
the preserve and the Addition.

“(2) The need for involvement of other Federal
and State agencies to accomplish the objectives of the '
preserve and Addition.

“(3) The status of land acquisition.

“(4) A determination, made in conjunction with
the State of Florida, of the adequacy of the number,
location, and design of the recreational access points
on Interstate 75 (Alligator Alley) for access to the Big

Cypress National Preserve, including the Addition.

 




  

  
   
     
   
   
   
  
   
  
  

CDCID-QGBUHPCDNJH

Hr—t
l—‘O

r—tr—tr—tv—LHI—L
CD-Jdbmr-Psw

l—l
N)

10

The determination referred to in paragraph (4) shall incorpo-
rate the results ofany related studies of the State of Florida
Department of Transportation and other Florida State agen-
cies. Any recommendation for significant changes in the ap-
proved recreational access points, including any proposed ad-
ditions, shall be accompanied by an assessment of the envi-
ronmental impact of such changes”.
SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

Section 8 of the Act of October 11, ’ 1974, is
amended—-

(1) by striking out “There” in the first sentence
and inserting in lieu thereof “(a) IN GENERAL.—
Except as provided in subsection (b), there”; and

(2) by adding at the end thereof the following new
subsection:

“(b) ADDITION—There are authorized to be appropri-
ated such sums as may be necessary for acquisition of lands

and for development Within the Addition”.

 

  

.HR 184 RH




Union Calendar No. 22

lOOTII CONGRESS .
ls'r SESSION H. R. 184

[Report No. 100-430]

 

 

A BILL

To establish the Big Cypress National Preserve Addi-
tion in the State of Florida, and for other purposes.

 

 

MARCH 27, 1987

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the
State of the Union and ordered to be printed

 




    
 
 

 

   

'. 4-... ~ .‘ , .‘ ‘. ’i .‘ , . V .
u. ...._ : .-">. «I‘m-m»; -* .
' ".. ‘ .«Jw. - , »._ .1;,-.' ‘- v. . v; n I~ H . -.' ”A . . .
.L-Wn“ - . "ew‘w'w‘; i
L
' ' v
’I

Y?’ Euggggted copy for wildife and conservation organization newsletters:

   

‘°a FINAL DECISIONS 0N SEA OTTER TRANSLOCATION UP TO

 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
    
  
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  

CALIFORNIA'S COASTAL COMMISSION AND FISH & GAME COMMISSION

Letters and-Attendance at Hearings Urgently Needed!

The establishment of a reserve breeding colony of sea otters at San
Nicolas Island (outermost of Southern California's Channel Islands off the
Ventura County coast) offers a remarkable opportunity to dilute the
immediate oil spill risk to California's threatened sea otter population.
A sea otter insurance policy if you will -- and an opportunity unlikely to
ever come again. '

But even with a Fall, 1987 target date for the actual move, the
toughest hurdles still lie ahead. For within the next three short months,
the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service will win or lose its bids for the required
approvals of this proposal from California's Coastal Commission and Fish &
Game,Commission.‘7‘ ‘

Opposition to the plan comes primarily from Southern California
shellfishery interests who fear the otters' impact on their fisheries. But
shellfishery conflicts are far lower at San Nicolas than at other potential
translocation sites. Additionally, in recognition of their concerns, a key
part of the proposal calls for the transplanted otters to be contained at
San Nicolas. Any animals found south of Point Conception would be assumed
to be strays from the new colony and would be picked up and moved back to
either San Nick or the parent population. In light of the fact that the
otters historically occupied the entire Southern California bight, this
proposal, which essentially will allow them to return home to only one
small island in all of Southern California, is certainly a more-than-fair
concession to the shellfish industry. ~

Nevertheless, the continuing loud and often ugly opposition from the
fishing industry may carry the day unless there is a massive outpouring of
support from conservationists. For both Commissions now have many -- if not
a majority -- of Commissioners who consistently favor commercial over
conservation interests, and some have already voiced their objections to
recbvery efforts for the otters ("...I truly hope that they never see a sea
otter on one of those offshore islands.")

Establishment of a reserve breeding colony is the cornerstone of the
Service's Recovery Plan for this threatened species, which still numbers
only about 1,H00 adult animals, and whose range is limited to roughly 225
miles of Santa Cruz, Monterey and San Luis Obispo county coastlines.

Concern over the devastating-impact a major oil spill could have on
this restricted population is the motivating factor behind the
translocation attempt, in which 70 otters are proposed to be removed
primarily from the southern portion of their existing range (off San Luis
Obispo County) and moved to San Nicolas, where they abounded prior to their
decimation by the nineteenth century fur trade. (Although up to a total
of 250 otters could be moved over a 5-year period, the Service hopes to
move few if any animals after the first year, once a core breeding group
has been established.) .

 
         
     
   




Although the oil spill threat to the sea otters can't be eliminated,
it can be diluted. ’And fortunately, San Nicolas Island still offers superb
otter habitat at sufficient distance from the mainland (over 60 miles) to
both discourage the otter's emigration from the island and to minimize
impacts from human activities.

Whether the otters are restored to San Nicolas or told "there's no
room left on the ark," will largely be determined by the amount of public
support for the otters' cause. It will have to far outwight the outcry
from fishery interests who are determined to oppose translocation in spite
of the major concession which have been incorporated into the proposal
solely for their benefit. (A public hearing in Ventura last September
overflowed with angry fishermen, many threatening dire consequences if
those "gut-eating weasels" were brought back to San Nicolas.) In fact, not
satisfied with the large "otter free" zone proposed for the rest of
Southern California, they are now pressing to retriCt the otters even
further north than Point Conception!

Another key player will be Governor George Deukmejian, who has
consistently supported translocation as a major mitigation measure to

offset the increased oil spill risk to the otters from offshore drilling at
the southern end of their present range.-

WHAT CAN YOU DO TO HELP THE OTTERS RETURN HOME TO SAN NICOLAS?
WRITE LETTERS AND ATTEND THE PUBLIC HEARINGS

** California Coastal Commission, 631 Howard St., San Francisco, CA 9&105

Hearing will be at Commission's May 12-15 meeting at Burton W. Chace
Park Fwest end of Mindanao Way], Marina del Re .. Call the Commission
after May 1 at its San Francisco (U157553-3555g or Long Beach (213/
590-5071) office for exact date.)

** California Fish & Game Commission, 1&16 Ninth St., Sacramento, CA 958lu

Hearing will be Wednesday, June 2D in the Auditorium, Room 102

of Office Building 9, 7AM "F” St., Sacramento. (The only
opportunity for public testimony although the Commission will not
actually vote until its June 26 meeting in South Lake Tahoe.)

** Governor George Deukmejian, State Capitol, Sacramento, CA 9581M

** Directgg Frank Dunkle, U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service, Washington, D.C.

The messa e should be sim 1e and stron for all: 1) Move forward as
quickly as possible with translocation, and 25 more than fair concessions
have already been made to the fishing industry -- there should be no
additional restrictions placed on the otters at any point further north

than Point Conception.

For more infonmation on how you can help, please contact Friends of the Sea
Otter, P.O. Box 221220, Carmel, CA 93922. (h08/625-3290)

«an. 5’45}? .5.“. ”ya-«(w‘ gird-“gs; .‘ ; - --1_, 1:13-73. 24.". » 2 :: ‘Whymmw’vn - ,1 ‘ ,-
' . (

 




 

20,503 miles of net set each night.

PROBLEMS CAUSED BY PELAGIC DRIFTNETS

There is very little scientific evidence on the extent of
the damage done by these nets. Of all the boats described above
(l,693 boats), only the Japanese salmon mothership fleet (172
boats) is subject to an impartial international (0.8. and
Canadian) observer program. independant research is carried out
by the 0.8., Japan, and Canada under the auSpices of the iNi‘ii‘C
treaty, but this is limited to analyzing the catches of the
Japanese mothership and laudbased fleets (381 boats, '?31H8t).

Marine Mammals and Birds

Observers in the Japanese salmon mothership fleet report
that 2,000 - 6,000 Dall's porpoises have been caught each year
since 1981. . v

They also report 250,000 to 750,000 seabirds killed each
year.

These observations only represent 10% of the fleet and $.Z
of the nets in the water.

Salmon

Recent 0.8. research indicates that the Japanese mothership
and landbased fleet has taken a yearly average of 303,000 chinook
salmon of Western, Central, and Southeast Alaska origin in the
years 1978-1983. This compares with average chinonk harvests in
Alaska of 800,000 chinook in those same years. The loss to
Alaska fishermen is over $l0 million/year.
'l‘here are lesser amounts of sockeye, chum, coho, and pink
saluunl interce)ted. ,, _ ,ﬁ. ,
(/n',,.,.“"‘rut.r.u 0f ’1‘) ’0‘. ‘f J¢\f 5.). ‘(l "' In! - 5’W/I’dw W‘?{
Indirect impacts I ’ I
Pelagic driftnets also "ghost" fish. Pieces of net are
lost during normal fishing, and occasionally entire nets are
abandoned by boats that were fishing illegally.
it is estimated that at least 50,000 northern fur seals
also become entangled and die each year in lost and discarded
nets and debris which include at least some pelagic driftnetting.
Mortality due to entanglement is suspected -as the chief cause of
line (toultinluilng (h?clilie (if thr: fut' s(u\i [inlniiai.i0li, vnii(n|, if [HDL
reversed, will reduce the current population by half within the
next year. (liraft l‘ZiS, 1983)

 




      

   

seventy days of active Fishing each year. (See map for fishing
areas.)

       
    
 
   
     
  
   
  
  

Japan / Salmon

Began after WWII

,__ Mothershlp fleet: h mothershjps
172 catcherlmats (o7 )

—- Land hased fleet: 209 catcherboats (22?;)

inch (watcher hoat uses a nine mile long net, twenty—six
feel deep.

Total net, = 3,'i29 miles. (4.9.672)
Japan / Squid

Began 1978

SH (atelier hunts (@070)

i‘he nets are r.wenty miles lonr.
Total length = 10,220 miles. (:30?)

Japan / Marlin and other fish

Hogan 9??
600 boars. £561.)
The nets m 6- 7 miles lo'hg.
'l'otal length = 3, 7H0 miles. (I? 70)

 
 
  

Taiwan / Sqniq

 
  
 

   

heran ?7? (\
in] hni‘ilS (0'10
'l‘he neis me i‘omLeen miles long.
'l'.nial lemgih = l, "1'! miles If (I 70‘

 
    
     
  

'l‘niwnn / Sailfish and marlin

  

(no information)

 
   

  
   

Republic of Korea / Squid
Hogan ??
100 Imam ((70)

ll mile long nels
'I'mm lengvhi .-. I’mogbmnm {9 lo

- -—-.---oo--~. .. .-.-‘-

  
 
        
 

WU'I‘ALS (h:i.ed nu nvnllnhle iniolmntlon)
.093 h”:‘.-" n

     
     




 

ii SSUE Bill EF‘
'l'liFL l’il()ill.i".i-i

in the past decade, Japan, Taiwan, and the Republic ol‘

Korea have developed extensive pelagic (at or near the surface)
driftnet fisheries.

'i'be limited data that has been collected from a small
fraction or the vessels indicates that large numbers of salmon of
ll..‘l. origin, thousands of marine mammals, and hundreds oi'
thousands or seabirds are incidentally killed each year.

'i'hesc interceptions result in significant economic losses
to Alaska i‘ishcrmen, and declines in marine bird and uiznmnal
populations. 'l'he decline in the fur seal population may be
related to the use of this fishing; method.

'i'his interception problem occurs not only when the net" are

actively i‘isbcd,. but also when the nets have been discarded and
continue to "ghost" i'lsh.

DESCRIPTION ill" 'i'lll". i’liiJiiliC illlil"'i‘iii'j'i‘ FlSlildili‘iiS 0i" 'l'iil'. Nilii'i'ii
l‘liiliiNC

THE NET

0

The pelagic drifnet is a type of gillnet, a panel of
plastic webbing that s suspended vertically in the water by
i'ioats at ihe top of the panel and welphs at the bottom. [is a
passive i’isbiny, device, it rntamgles the pill plates and other
body parts of i'lsh and other creatures that :wim into Ii . liy
ad‘iusi lnr, the buoyancy ol' the net. with Heats. and weirhts, the
not can be suspended like a curtain at any depth in the water
column and can be either anchored to fish in one placr- or lei't to
drii‘i with wind and current. The nets are not bimleprmiabie, are

acoustically and visually "invisible" to Hub and othrr animals,
and are nearly unbreakable.

THE F Silliii | ES

The pelagic drii‘tnet i'isheries oi' the North l'acii'ic are
conducted by Vessels from Japan, 'i'aiwan, and the ilepnblic oi'
Loren and arr- composed of distinct Fleets desirned to ratch
:zpm-il‘lc spm-ies, surh as salmon, squid, marlin, or saiii‘ish.
larh v«-:.:H-i in the i‘ieet typiraiiy sets a low: .lrii'im-i at duslz,
which clrii'is with winds and currents nrar the snri‘aq-u, 'i'ue net
is hauled in at «lawn every day durinr, the i’ishinp, :wa'mn. 'Ine
duration of the i'ishinr season varies from i‘orty to more than

 




 




The Marine Mammal Commission, the National Marine
Fisheries Service, the Department of State, and others,
gravely concerned by these estimates, encouraged the North
Pacific Fur Seal Commission to address the problem more
vigorously than it had in the past. At about the same
time, it became apparent that Hawaiian monk seals were also
becoming entangled in lost and discarded fishing gear and
other debris and that this could be contributing signifi-
cantly to monk seal mortality. Elsewhere, data were being
collected that indicated that lost and discarded fishing
gear and other marine debris were global problems affecting
many marine species.

In August 1982, participants in a National Marine
Fisheries Service program review, which the Commission had
requested, discussed the problem and agreed it would be
valuable, as recommended by the Commission, to promptly
convene a workshop to address the issue. Although the
Service offered to proceed with planning such a workshop
and despite the Commission's repeated offers of support and
concrete recommendations with respect to the form, content,
and objectives of such a workshop, the workshop was not
held until late in 1984. The Workshop on the Fate and
Impact of Marine Debris was held 27-29 November 1984 in
Honolulu, Hawaii. Consistent with the Marine Mammal
Commission's recommendation, responsibility for the Work-
shop was transferred to the Honolulu Laboratory of the
National Marine Fisheries Service. The Laboratory deserved
praise for the quality of this useful Workshop, which it
organized and convened. (See previous Annual Reports.)

Purposes of the Workshop, as noted in the previous
Annual Report, were to: (1) review the state of knowledge
on the fate and impact of marine debris to determine the
extent of the problem: (2) identify and make recommen-
dations on possible mitigating actions; and (3) identify
and make recommendations on future research needs. Work-
shop participants divided into four working groups to
consider: the origin of marine debris, its impact on
marine species, its fate in the marine environment, and
tools for addressing and managing the problem. The conclu-
sions and recomendations of the four working groups were
discussed in detail in the Annual Report for Calendar Year
1984.

In July 1985, the National Marine Fisheries Service
published the complete Proceedings of the November 1984
Workshop on the Fate and Impact of Marine Debris. As noted
in the Executive Summary, a number of common conclusions
and similar recommendations emerged from the individual
working groups. The groups agreed, for example, on the
need for extensive efforts to educate the public on the
marine debris problem; the need for quantitative data to
assess the impact of debris on marine resources: and the

69

 




need for increased information to determine the sources and
distribution of debris. The working groups also agreed

on the need to improve and facilitate the exchange of
relevant ideas, data, and techniques for assessing and
addressing the problems. It was also recommended by one of
the groups that the National Marine Fisheries Service
designate a program manager for marine debris activities.

Workshop participants further agreed that: despite
insufficient data, available evidence shows that marine
debris now threatens a number of marine species, including
marine mammals, sea birds, marine turtles, and fish, and
that it presents a hazard to vessel operations. The
participants also pointed out the potential positive bene-
fits from marine debris, such as a tendency to concentrate
finfish, and recommended that these benefits be investi-
gated.

The report of the Service's Workshop on the Fate and
Impact of Marine Debris was made available to the Commis-
sion and others in draft form early in 1985. Its conclu-
sions and recommendations provided an excellent basis from
which to proceed with planning during 1985.

Implementation of the Fiscal Year 1985 Entanglement Program

Recognizing the need for prompt constructive action to
better determine and mitigate the problem of entanglement
of marine mammals and other marine animals in lost and
discarded fishing gear and other marine debris, Congress
directed that $1,000,000 be appropriated to the National
Marine Fisheries Service in Fiscal Year 1985 to develop a
comprehensive research and management program addressing
the issue. Congress also directed that the Service develop
this program in consultation with and with the concurrence
of the Marine Mammal Commission.

On 8 February 1985, the Service convened a meeting of
representatives of the Commission, Congress, and the envi-
ronmental community to discuss allocation of the special
appropriation among needed research and management tasks.
During the meeting, representatives of the Service advised
the other participants that the Service would only invest
$750,000 of the $1,000,000 mandated by Congress. The
purpose of the reduction was to make $250,000 available to
cover Service expenditures unrelated to the entanglement
issue. The Service used $50,000 of the remaining $750,000
to cover costs of the November 1984 Workshop on the Fate
and Impact of Marine Debris. These actions were taken
without consulting with or receiving the concurrence of
either Congress or the Commission. On 25 February 1985,
the Commission wrote to the Service referencing the Con-
gressional directive and noting that the Commission did not

70

 




concur with the $250,000 reduction tnd allocation of the
funds to other purposes. In its letter, the Commission
also urged that a high level scientist/administrator be
appointed to run the entanglement program and that a
research advisory group be appointed promptly to help
develop a plan for allocating the special appropriation.

In response to the Commission's recommendation on the
need for a single person to oversee the entanglement pro-
gram, the Service designated, in April 1985, a member of
the Northwest and Alaska Fisheries Center staff to manage
the program. Although the Service also agreed with the
Commission on the need to convene a meeting of experts to
help organize and guide the entanglement program, it was
the Commission that assumed the initiative for holding such
a meeting in La Jolla, California, on 18-19 March 1985.
Participants, including representatives from the Commis-
sion, the Service, the North Pacific Fishery Management
Council, and the environmental community, reviewed the
results of the November 1984 Workshop on the Fate and
Impact of Marine Debris and identified priority project
needs for addressing the entanglement problem.

Based on the results of this meeting, the Commission
prepared an annotated program outline which included a
description of identified priority projects. By letter of
3 April 1985, the Commission transmitted the recommended
program outline to the Service. On 19 April, the Commis-
sion completed its work by providing the Service with
detailed scopes of work and estimated costs for each of the
projects identified in the annotated program outline. The
recommended program and scopes of work considered allo-
cations of $950,000 assuming that $50,000 of the special
appropriation had already been spent on the November 1984
Workshop.'

The program outline included provisions for the fol-
lowing: (1) development and implementation of an infor-
mation and education program; (2) a West Coast/New England
Coast September 1985 beach clean-up; (3) research on entan-
glement of North Pacific fur seals; (4) research on entang-
lement of northern sea lions; (5) establishment of a refe-
rence collection and development of expertise to identify
sources of marine debris; (6) a study to determine accumu-
lation and disappearance rates of marine litter on Alaska
beaches; (7) a compilation and analysis of data concerning
marine debris reported by U.S. fishery observers during
groundfish fishing operations in the Bering Sea: (8) a
survey of the high seas squid gill net fishery; (9) identi-
fication of sources of fishing debris affecting endangered
marine animals in the northwestern Hawaiian Islands; (10) a
study of the dynamics of derelict gill net gear in the
North Pacific; (11) studies of the impact of ingested
debris on sea turtles and sea birds; (12) development of

71

 




 

methods for surveying the distribution and abundance of
marine debris at sea; (13) expanding efforts to collect
relevant data from marine animals which strand on beaches;
(14) development of new means to reduce the disposal of
refuse into the marine environment: (15) research on the
use of biodegradable materials: and (16) development of
regulatory approaches to the problem of marine debris.

On 3 May 1985, the Service wrote to the Commission
requesting comments on its plans to proceed with a proposed
$750,000 spending plan for the entanglement program.
Although the Service's plan was based on the program out-
line provided it by the Commission in April, it called for
eliminating support for research on the use of biodegrad-
able materials and on development of regulatory approaches
and for reducing support for certain other identified
projects. In its letter of 8 May to the Service, the
Commission recommended that: (1) the full $1,000,000
mandated and appropriated by Congress be invested so that a
coherent research program as originally developed would be
supported; (2) if full funding could not be restored, the
Service reprogram funds from its Dall's porpoise research
program (which the Marine Mammal Commission believes the
Japanese government is obligated to pay for under an exist-
‘ing agreement), from the St. George Island fur seal
studies, and, if necessary, from part of the northern sea
lion research envisioned under the Bering Sea ecosystem
study: and (3) in the future, the Service better integrate
related research programs concerning North Pacific fur
seals and northern sea lions so as to address the most
critical issues first. ‘

On 21 May 1985, the Service advised the Commission
that it would not be able to restore full funding to the
entanglement program and that it was too late in the Fiscal
Year to reprogram funds to make up the shortfall, as recom-
mended in the Commission's letter. The Service indicated,
however, that it would immediately start looking for ways
to redirect funds in Fiscal Year 1986 into entanglement
studies related to fur seals and sea lions. The Service
proceeded with efforts to implement the program described
above at the reduced level of $750,000. On 22 August 1985,
the Acting Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration restored $150,000. This increase to
$900,000 was distributed in accordance with the recommended
plan developed in cooperation with the Marine Mammal Com-
mission. At the end of 1985, results from most of the
projects supported during the year were not yet available.

Planning for the Fiscal Year 1986 Entanglement Program

.Recognizing the seriousness of the problem and the
fact that only a modest start had been made to address the

72

I

 




issues, Congress directed the National Marine Fisheries
Service to continue its entaﬁglement program. For this
purpose, Congress appropriated $750,000 to the Service for
Fiscal Year 1986. In addition, Congress directed that the
Service develop its 1986 entanglement program under the
guidance of and with concurrence of the Marine Mammal
Commission.

On 25 June 1985, the Commission recommended to the
National Marine Fisheries Service that the working group
which had developed the program plan for Fiscal Year 1985
be reconvened by the Service in July or August to do the
same thing for Fiscal Year 1986. In response to this
recommendation, the National Marine Fisheries Service
convened a second meeting of the 3g hog advisory committee
on the entanglement program on 20-21 August 1985 in
Seattle, Washington. During the meeting, participants
reviewed the status of projects being funded by the Fiscal
Year 1985 appropriation, ranked proposed scopes of work
that had been developed by the Service for funding in
Fiscal Year 1986, and identified additional priority tasks
for which scopes of work had not yet been developed.

Based on the meeting, subsequent deliberations, and
the Commission's recommendation that draft plans of differ-
ing costs be developed, the Service prepared entanglement
program plans ranging in value from $500,000 to $1,000,000
in the hope that the Fiscal Year 1986 appropriation would
thus be covered. In fact, $750,000 was appropriated and,
on 31 December 1985, the Service transmitted the recom-
mended program plan to the Commission for its review and
concurrence. The recommended plan, the product of some
care and effort, would continue a number of studies initi-
ated in 1985 and also support a number of new projects. At
the end of 1985, the Commission looked forward to reviewing
the proposed Fiscal Year 1986 program and providing the
Service with comments and recommendations in early 1986.

Related Commission Activities

As noted in its previous Annual Report, the Commission
contracted for a study of domestic and international
authorities that might be useful in efforts to resolve the
entanglement problem. The report of that study (see Bean,
1985, Appendix B), given the Commission in October 1984,
was made available to participants at the November 1984
Workshop in Hawaii. Among other points, the report recom-
mended that (a) the entanglement problem be factored into
the development of the next edition of the five-year
"Federal Plan for Ocean Pollution Research, Development,
and Monitoring," a plan mandated under the National Ocean
Pollution Planning Act, and (b) the President seek the
advice and consent of the Senate to ratify Annex V of the

73

 




'Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships in
that such action would proVide an international authority
prohibiting the disposal of all plastics including, but not
limited to, synthetic ropes, fishing nets, and plastic

garbage.

Another significant element in this issue is the
efforts being undertaken by the National Marine Pollution
Program Office of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration. On 22-24 May 1984, the Office convened a
workshop in Easton, Maryland, to assist it in identifying
priority marine pollution issues to be addressed in the
next edition of the Federal marine pollution plan. Repre-
sentatives of the Marine Mammal Commission were invited and
participated in the workshop at which they identified the
issues of entanglement of marine mammals, sea birds, and
turtles in ghost nets, traps, and other debris as one which
the five-year plan should address. Other workshop parti-
cipants, representing a broad spectrum of Federal, State,
local, and private ocean interests, were unfamiliar with
the issue and rated the entanglement issue low on its list
of 50 ocean pollution issues.

Following the workshop, the National Marine Pollution
Program Office distributed the preliminary workshop report
to all participants for review and comment. The report
reflected the low ranking assigned to the entanglement
issue by participants. By letter of 25 March 1985, the
Commission commented on the report noting that the partici-
pants developed a useful list of significant national
pollution issues and that the report provided an accurate
reflection of workshop results. With respect to the entan-
glement issue, however, the Commission commented that the
low ranking vastly underestimated the issue's true impor-
tance. It also noted that the low ranking was not surpris-
ing since most workshop participants, unfamiliar with
recently available information on the subject, could not be
expected to fairly evaluate their significance. The
Commission recommended that the National Marine Pollution
Program Office reassess the low ranking assigned to the
entanglement issue in light of recent information, and, to
assist in this process, the Commission provided the Office
with additional material describing the nature and magni-
tude of the problem.

By letter of 1 April 1985, the National Marine Pollu-
tion Program Office responded to the Commission's comments
indicating that it agreed that the importance of the issue
had been underestimated and that it would address the issue
in the forthcoming edition of the Federal ocean pollution
program plan. The Commission looks forward to receiv1ng a
draft of the plan for review and comment in 1986.

 




In its 1 Aprrl letter, the National Marine Pollution
Program Office also indicated that it would welcome recom-
mendations from the Commission on activities which it might
support in furtherance of developing and disseminating
information on the entanglement issue. After several
discussions, the Commission wrote to the Office on
28 August 1985 proposing a transfer of funds from the
Office to the Commission in support of a study to expand
the information base on problems of entanglement and inges-
tion of non—degradable marine debris in the Gulf of Mexico,
the Caribbean, the northwest Atlantic, the North Sea, and
Australasia. Subsequently, the transfer of funds was
executed and a description of activities supported under
the project is provided in Chapter II of this report.

On 21 November 1985, Commission representatives parti-
cipated in a meeting convened by the U.S. Coast Guard to
prepare for U.S. participation in the 22nd session of the
International Maritime Organization's Marine Environment
Protection Committee to be held in London on 2-6 December
1985. Among other things, the Committee was scheduled to
consider matters pertaining to Annex V of the Protocol
Relating to the International Convention for the Prevention
of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL). As indicated above, this
Annex, which is not yet in force, would provide an inter-
national authority for prohibiting the discard of plastics,
net materials Pnd.other debris which are the source of the
entanglement problem.

Since the U.S. had not acted to ratify Annex V of
MARPOL, Commission representatives, as well as participants
from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
and the environmental community, urged during the meeting
that the U.S. actively consider ratification of the Annex.
As a result of these discussions on 21 November, it was
agreed that representatives of concerned Federal agencies
would meet following the 2-6 December Committee meeting to
consider appropriate U.S. action. The Commission looks
forward to this meeting in early 1986, at which time it
expects to continue to work for agreement on ratifying
Annex V of the Convention and putting it before the Senate
for its consideration.

 




 

 

nr teasing attention is being given to the neerl to tet-

ogni7e anrl resolve problems resulting from the rapid

expansion of pelagie driltttets. partir ularly itt waters ol
the North Pacific beyond roastal nation jurisdiction.

The pelagic rlrifrnet is a type nfgillrtet. a panel of plastie
webbing suspended vertically irt the water by floats at the
top and weights at the bottom. A gillnet is a passive fishing
device that works by entattgling the gill plates and other
body parts of fish and other rreatures that swim into it. by
adjusting the ltttoyanry of the net with lloars and weights,
the net ran be suspended like a curtain at any depth iii the
water tolumn; it (an be either authored irt one plar e or left
to drift with wind and current and fish the etttire area
through wltirh it drifts.

—-—- .-._.. —--—.¢...—-.—_ ”m...

Fr/imr'r Note: T/trr ("fir/P rtngr'nal/y appeared m the
Volume 27, Number 4 (lr'r'ntrr 1934-8” rrmr of
()eeanus magazine. [tub/{tired by r/te ll'bndr [lo/r
Oceanographic Inttr'mrr'nn in ll'bndr [Io/r, Marine/m
rent. ll"! are indebted to (Item. and m rlﬂflﬂﬁ Ro/vn-r
Brien/71rd. for granting m perrmm'rm In rr/mrr! r'l.

. .c.‘

 
   
  
  
  

Drifting gillnct‘s wastcfully kill

untold numbers of seabirds,
mammals and fish each year——
and the time has come to

do something about it.
By Robert Eiscnbud

(iillttets have been used lot rr'tttttries and need ttot be any
more destructive than other ll‘thlHn ter ltnir'ues if they are
used selettis'ely and in’rnocleration Regulatory measures to
litttit the mesh sire and over-all length of nets as well as the
season, area. and other asper ts of their use ran minimize or
pretlude adverse imparts Regular monitoring of a gillttet
fishery ran detect problems and allow neressary remedial
measures to be formulated artd impletttented.

The situation rhanges, hots-ever, when plastie rlrilt gill.
nets are ntilired on a large st ale iii the opert mean beyond
the reach nl monitoring and regulation by toastal nations.
Stir lt pelanit‘ tltiltttets are mm it longer than t‘nastal gillnets
and are not used selerris-ely or in moderation. They are not
biodegradable. are aroustirally and visually ”invisible" to
fish attd other animals, and are nearly unbreakable with the
result that fish. birds. and marine mammals become
trapped irt tltern and rannot break lree \V/lten properly set.
such a pelagic driltnet is a devastatingly elfet tive curtain of

. - —_... - _. ..~-..._.-..-

it! a! a rate of IRJNM mr/rr .1 met/tr, N l‘mr/ir r/nflnelr It”
and /or/ a I/md'n/ r/v m/mnn I/try ”mm: I. 77" mm
re/rctrr'r nrrr d/tn r/mrr'n alum! $00.01)!) rm Inn/r annual/y.

 

MAY WM 63

 

 

 

  




‘lm'll'llllm'ﬂll Whit lt nothing larger than the opening in the
mesh tan pass.

Adverse lmpaets of Driftnets

The remarkable t‘llr‘rti\'ett(‘ss of tlte pelagit tltiftttct as a
fishing terhnique (perhaps its only virtue) is, at best. a
ttti‘tt‘tl blessing lt often results itt ovetfishing of target
speties antl the itttitlental taking and tlistattl of marine
mammals, seabirrls, antl unwanted sprites of fish

'lhejaprtnese Pr‘lﬁr‘it' tltiftnet lisht-tv for salmon irt the
North l‘at ilit ittt ltttlt's a high sea lit-er of font lllttlllt‘f<l$ll‘<
atttl l7). tart llt‘f boars, as well as a latttl ltztsetl llt-et Hi 70')
vessels that fish on lltt‘ high was but must return in ymtt
with their t att lt ttather than transferring it to tttotht-rsltittsl
Farlt Hl tltttsr lRl l'r‘ssr'ls srt< an R tltilr‘lttttg, Ni litttt-tlt‘t‘p
ttet to drift at tlttslt. atttl hattls it itt at dawn evetv vlay thttittg
the fishing season Taken together, the tttorhetship-basetl
anti latttl-hasetl fleets set 3.0le miles of net every night.
Approximately 5.000 Dall's porpoises are entangled and
die each year itt the tlrifmets oftlte mothership fleet and an
equal or greater number die in the nets of the land-based
fleet.

T he bills. feet. and wings of seahirtls beeome entangled
in driftners when the birds swim into the net while feeding
on fislt below the surface of tlte water. lrt the early l970s,
the Danish high seas salmon tltiltnet fishety in the north-
west Atlantic was estimated to be killing more than $00,000
(living seabirds each year. That mortality. in eonjnnrtion
with hunting, exceeded the net annual reeruitment of the

()lrrrrr'rrt {ft’rli'ff tr d'md Ila/7'1 l’nr/vmr, rmr n/ [0,000 (In! are
[our to gi/lm'rr tar/v year .‘ltr'tt'mg m 1/? may/ten are I/te ten
mile: of net (/10! are 10:! or drtwm'ea' eat it nigltt.

__. ..-—-— —————

 

 

seabittl populations and t‘ausetl their tlet line until the fish-
ery tlt'plflttl the salmon stnt les so badly that the fishery was
closed in 1076.

The samejapattese North l‘arifie mothetship salmon drift-
ttet fishery that kills $000 Hall's porpoises Pﬂt‘h year also
ltills between 250,000 attrl 750,000 seahirtls each year. The
nets are. set near the Aleutian Islands where nesting rolonies
of mutres. puffins. sheamaters. atttl auklets may well be in
decline as a result of this high level of mortality. Moreover.
no information is available on the extent of incidental tak-

 

 

‘\

\

N.

‘fdytek

FISHUNTERS
GET MORE FISH

Computerized Recording Seawater
femnﬂmltttt‘? indicating System

Model ISM} ll't". tttntlnl ttt':ttlrty
ttntt Itnttll‘l tnt pnltll'ltlf‘tll lm nttt
mtltm rmtlttttttttn ttt ltllltf‘ttlwﬂ

Mattel 703200 lltl". ntnttt‘d
tttttttnn tttsttutttnttt pttvvon ivy
epott rttttt eottttttetrtttl listtet
tttott ttttnttqltottl the world

Model 1000 »-l2ntn
met ﬂush mount too
lttte': lthlt (‘Oltllﬂ'3l
smtthttt teodtttttn
liquid crystal

display

All include naval
htoss probe wuh
75 COME ﬁnd nttn
yr'ttr nondtltnnol
wotmttty

dyteltm

lldvvvv‘ vb. tnr

lW‘ '5l0 77' MN!
Slﬁ ‘67 0500

"Jill I ‘ l

"HI"
'tt tTHtt

‘ "I't"l"|‘tl- l|\'|.-"‘ f. ...'I.‘ -

. D...,,l,.. ' ..

 

,v.'r' "'- 3.5 u:

fur.” "r‘ .7“ ,... 0'“! .r-r run ,.

.‘l.\\ l'N't

h-

 

 

 




'ing ofseahirds or other creatures hy the 20‘).vessel_lapanese

larrd-hasetl salmon driftnet fleet, the approximately 500
'lapanese North Pacific-pelagic driftnet squid vessels (which
each set a 30-milelong net at the surface every night ). some
200 Taiwanese pelagic driftnet sqttid vessels. or the other
large-scale pelagic driftnet fisheries ofjapan. Taiwan. and
South Korea. which have developed in the North Pacific
during the last decade.

Additionally. concern about the potential incidental
catch oflatge numbers of North American-origin salmon hy
squid and other pelagic driftnet fisheries has led to increas-
ing demands for observation and regulation of those fish.
eries hy the flag nation and/or regional organizations. De-
spite the staggering amount of pelagic driftnet deployed hy
japan. Taiwan, and South Korea in the North Pacific. for
example. only the japanese mothership salmon fishery is
subject to direct regulation by treaty (through the interna-
tional North Pacific Fisheries Commission). and only a por.
tion of that fishery is suhject to an impartial international
ohserver program. The remaining fisheries are subject to no
treaty. no international observers. and little or no observa-
tion and enforcement by even the flag nation.

The inherent nature of pelagic driftnets also causes suh-
sranrial "noncatch mortality" of target fish. After becom-
ing entangled and dying, a significant proportion of fish
fall from the net. lo the case of the )apanese tnothership
salmon fishery in the North Pacific. for example. it is es-
timated that one immature salmon is killed but not re-
trieved from the driftnet for every one that is brought

ahoard the catcherlroar. and that one adult salmon is killed
and lost for every three that are hrought ahoard. Evert if it
is assumed. conservatively, that all of the approximately 9.5
million salmon caught hy thelapanese tnothership fleet in
l08§ were adults. that loss rate resulted in the "noncatch
mortality" of more than 3 million additional fish during
l083. Such a loss is potentially damaging to the resource
and very wasteful.

Loss and Discard of Nets

In addition to the wasteful killing of marine mammals,
seabirds. and fish. pelagic driftnetting is a wasteful tech-
nique with respect to the netting itself. which. like no.
wanted species of fish. is lost or thrown away. The loss anrl
discard of nets have adverse environmental and socio-
economic consequences.

lt is estimated that an average of 0.06 percent of the
japanese salmon driftnet is lost and not recovered from the
water during each set of the net. While seemingly negli-
gihle at first glance. this rate of loss results in a very sub-
stantial amount of net floating at sea when the enormous
scale of pelagic driftnetting is considered. Taking the jap-
anese salmon and sqrrid driftnet fisheries discussed previ-
ously as an example. the I72 catcherhoats in the mothership
salmon fleet and the 20‘) vessels in the land-based fleet each
set an 8-mile-long net for a total of 3. 048 miles of net each
night, while the 500 sqirid boats each set a 30-mile-long net
for a total of 15,000 miles of net and a combined toral of
t8.0'l8 miles of on each night. The 0.06 percent rate ofloss

 

 

 

REVOLVES IN A 15" RADIUS ClnCLEl

Hm littoﬁl tttnlr‘tlnl". lmvr‘ lwott
thi". chair It". ontnlrrrtnhtn_
Irrrvrwt hook and 'zrtnltrtutr‘d .‘ttttt t"".l".
mo losilr. llrn "mat and arm". :ur‘
rrralmqanv. Every nnt, lmlt, arm-v and
washer is: atnitrloas atoot the hack can
troqrrir-Jrly romnvmt to nrnko it Misti"! to
Mini those hit) one". Our treavv.
'ztriittlctﬁ". ﬁlm‘l.()itttlt.1llml triclltnltl'" I".
lit" turmn't ”.trrnrqnnt. mitt tin-2t
:t‘.':trl:tlrl" tho market tmhv
ttnlirnrtod '8 ynar warranty

'l'tly
tt'tml itt

'th

l’nAt twonKs COMPANY. INC.
PO. BOX 'lf'lﬁS ant. "WA

Lake Worth, Florida 33460

(305) 888-0680

Marine Product". that am tmttm
fly Unsrgn'

 

 

 

 

”at“: .
M

MA Y W?“

ls"

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

means that i0.8 miles ofner are lost in the water each night.
Assuming a 5-month fishing season. those fleets alone leave
1,624 miles of net to float in the North Pacific each and
every fishing season.

In addition to the unintentional loss of netting, US.
government personnel in surveillance aircraft have ohsets'etl
the abandonment ofentire pelagic drifrncts hy fleeing ves-
sels that had been fishing illegally in restricted or prohib-
ited waters 0f the North Pacific. The nets, with floats and
weights intact but identifying markers and radio beacons
removed. are left to fish relentlessly for 24 hours a day.

The lost and abandoned plastic netting does not degrade
and continues to “ghost fish." drifting unseen and un-
tended. until it washes ashore or sinks. Marine mammals.
seabirds. and fish become entangled and die in such nets.
The propellors and shafts of fishing and orher vessels be-
come entangled as well, causing economic loss and enrlan.
gering human lives. Examination o-fan abandoned salmon
driftnet revealed 99 dead seabirds and more than 200
salmon entangled in just a portion ofthe net. it is estimated
that at least 50,000 northern fur seals also become entan-
gled and die each year in lost and discarded nets and debris,
including at least some pelagic driftnets. Mortality as the
result of entanglement is suspected to he the chiefcause of
the continuing 5 to 8 percent decline of the fur seal pop.
ulation. which ifnot reversed. will reduce the population by
half within the next decade.

Finally, while lost and abandoned nets may fish for
months or even years before washing ashore or sinking with

-‘-ve "on NO~--.y-¢Q-~QQ~ ----~ 0"-.- got—... ...-.....o-rc-oﬁhhw-“v '.~-..
~ . . r , ,

r i i _’

Fish . . . without paper!

 

 

 

 

MILHU l i {All VlUEU

o.—~.u. . ... ....

the weight of dead animals. barnacles. algae. and debris.
the plastic pelagic driftnet is apparently far less durable
when it is actively fished. The nets stretch. ahrade. and
generally deteriorate as a result ofdaily sets and hauls under
heavy loads and this leads to yet another undesirable result:
)apanese pelagic salmon drifrners must be replaced after
only one season of use. and this is apparently a typical
replacement rate. The pelagic driftnet technique thus re-
sults in the annual discard of many thousands of miles of
plastic netting. The disposal ofthis nnnhiodegradable plas-
tic poses environmental and health problems. and the
several-thousand-dollar replacement cost of such a net con-
stitutes a significant expense that likely leads to increased
fishing effort. pressures on fish stocks. and resistance to
conservation measures in order to generate offsetting
revenues.

Suggested Remedial Actions

During discussions at the 2d FAQ World Fishing Gear Con-
gress in London in 1963. H. Kristionsson. representing the
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAQ). nored that 20 to.
30 thousand gillnets were already being used in'Sri Lanka
as a result of their introduction there by the FAQ and that
the technique was being widely accepted and adopted
throughout the world. He noted. however. that the high
annual replacement costs of gillnets posed problems that
warranted further thodght and studies to facilitate selection
of the most economical gear and materials. Experience
gained during the succeeding 20 years suggests that there
is an urgent need for srudies concerning pelagic driftnets.

Deal Direct and Save

We insure lmats
/ ...mﬂy boats.

 

Call toll free
lot a quote.

It 800 BUAl-lNSliiiANilE

 

The impulse MicroTrac Video Fishiinder gives
you a precision readout at bottom conditions
and iish without costly paper and mechanical
headaches

Ask tor a demonstration at your local impuise
dealer.

Clﬂ’lﬂ NO 56 on 9060409 Snrvlra Card

MPUlSE MANUI’AC'HINNO, "it?
32! "nitrous Avenue

Ptttabmq. CA uses tars, 09.7077
hint "0700 Ni‘illSE PM"

”809262-845”

 

' NATIoNAi:
at m ‘- MARINE
unnemvmrene

incarcerated

" w~ IW'M. ‘ "a
(“do Mn 17] on Pond" Sorvlen Cord

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

ln art elfott to draw attention to that need. (iteenpeate
International suhrnitretl a paper to the recent FM) \‘(v’orld
t‘nnfetenre on Fisheries Management and Development in
thrnr‘ Greenpeate suggested that the World (‘onfetente
ittitiate a reevaluation of the pelagic driftnet tet hnique he
adopting a resolution conveying its concern. calling for a
workshop anrl other efforts to reevaluate the technique. and
calling on governments to take the following actions: I)
estahlish effertit'e arrangements for an‘itnpattial ohsetver
program, the collection tifittlortnatinrt from pelagic driltnet
operations at sea. and the marking and registry ofall pelagic
tltiftrtets indicating the flag nation and identity ofthe s'eso
sels using each net: 2) undertake efforts through the Inter-
national North Pacific Fisheries Commission, FM). and
other otgani7ations to roller t. share. and evaluate informa-
tion, develop legal and administrative frameworks. and take
such other steps as may he necessary to prevent the adverse
impacts from pelagic driftnets; and 3) refrain from invest-
tnent iii and development of any additional pelagic driftnet
fisheries unless and ttntil the major ptohletns that result
from such fisheries are resolved.

These are reasonahle and moderate ret‘ornrnendations
designed to gather more information with which to asserts
the nature and estent of the prohlems and resolve them.
The FA” World (‘onfetence concentrated its efforts on the
adoption of a htoad policy, the Strategy and accompanying
Action Programmes and it therefore did not take action on
the resolution suggested by Greenpeace.

other delegations at the meeting a note expressing concern
about the large numbers of nontarget fish. birds. marine
mammals. and other creatures that become entangled in
pelagic driftnets as well as in other gear and rlehris and
suggesting that the suhiect he included itt the agenda for
future meetings of the Mt) (“nintnittee on Fisheries. In
response to the note. the i<sue will he included on the
agenda for the April t‘iRS meeting ofthc committee. It will
almost certainly lie the stthjett "l. disrnssion in other (it).
mestic and international forums as well.

Such discussions are overdue and eseemial if a mainr
controversy similar to that resulting from the tuna-porpoise
ptohlem in the 1070s is to he avoided. 'l he estimates of the
nittnher of animals killed. hased on ohservations of only
some of the pelagic driltnet fisheries, are staggering and
warrant immediate attention. While it is not clear that there
are technological solutions to the ptohlem. some attempts
have been made and others have heen proposed. The'lap-
anese have installed air-ttthe strands in salmon drifrttets to
render them ”visihle" to echolotating Dall's porpoises—
with mixed results. 1 hey also are examining the possihility
that a smaller mesh size may terluce seahitd entanglement.
'lhese and other approaches should he pursued.

'l he prospects for a reasoned and ell'cctive resolution of
the problems associated with the pelagic driftnet are very
likely to depend on the extent to whith discussions in the
near future elicit adetfuate information arid vigorous reme-
dial action by the nations conducting the pelagic driftnet

The United States delegation. however. did disrrihure to fisheries. .9

 

 

Here’s a special offer to it“ he best IGFA
saltwater fishing line itt [It world
...MAXIMA ’

80 low sporttishermen give iishing line the credit they should.
NI oi your equipment must contribute 100% to your cited and the
line you use is no exception.

the line you choose must have strength. that's why Maxima
uses a hard process finish to protect the line from water absorption, salt-
water deterioration and bruises —— while maintaining ease ot casting.

Martina is the line that keeps 'ern caught. the only problem is you
can't always tind this premium tltFA tishiug tine. . . so the people at Maxima
are extending to you this very special otter to try the best sportlistring
line in the world.

Get a Maxima Starter Kit tor only $9.50. You can now get a OneShut
Spool ol Maximo tistring tine tor only $9.50! Plus, you'll receive a FREE Team
Maxima cap. Oi course, shipping is included.

All you have to do to get your Maxirna is till out the coupon below and send
a check or money order tor $9.50 and your Maximo ”Starter Kit" is on its way.

the only way to tell what a dillerence Maxima makes is to try it.
And we're sure you will. Send to lot your Maxima Starter Kit today!

r——-~-—----——-----1
lwant my Maximal

Hum a N ‘50 let a One-Shot' shoot 0'
It_tt:‘lh rttsrh rtaoth upsth Home rtaoth
I

 

 

And than” in mi Aura in: "m ran foam May-ma .‘1' and nlrhlnq
up "in eltir‘pirtq rharqn'

lt......ttt ”in." .t.. ,.,..., . H. .,..i.... .,... . n.

,-..y't FH-

eeps 'em caught!

""UVF n MISrQJHC 'i-H'r'll': cli'hthnttw n1 linvmiau'ﬁhrl“
ML'V1"...nttrltryttr‘tviaqerf‘i tzmrtmn (‘A'Y‘T’iﬂt7l1l't“ 7"”

.,... u .i Ln...‘ ., ”4.....- ..t I 1: ‘ D
“.0‘ yr. - it it,"

slaw-HA m tt'

\ at a x I m l\

""""","“'t ‘ I" 1“.,.'...‘ l ﬁ III .n SW“.

 

( at.» ”n l" "V‘ Quad” gﬂvvyrﬂ rﬂtfi

 

 

72 QMI WAH‘R S‘I‘HRlSMAN

 




A fur coat obtain-
ed with a steel
jaw trap is no
longer a status
symbol.

 

WA?) Tl‘ll5

Tm: TDAD __

THAT CAlJCajjl
YOUD. CO/—\l

6?

O

 

 

 

Now that the public is learning of
the gruesome trapping and mar-
tyrdom of fur bearing animals in-
dividual buyers must consult their
consciences. They must decide it
they can still bear to buy or to wear
fur obtained with the steel jaw
leghold trap. Documented facts and
photographs. demonstrate its cruelty.
They know that in rejecting fur from
animals caught in steel jaw traps,
they are opting for life — not for
agonizing death for animals.

 




BIood-spattered
snow provides a
nightmare setting
for the terror, pain,
and despair which
the implacable trap
elicits from its
small victim — a
barbaric drama of
suffering which has
been compared to
crucifixion.

Fear and pain inflicted by the leghold
trap is so intense that many animals
gnaw their paws off to escape.
Others die of thirst, hunger or cold
before the trapper returns. Only 32
state laws require daily inspections
of trap lines, and such laws as exist,
are not enforced.

Dozens of these little ermines are
necessary to make a single coat.

‘l
".0-.- _ —.__._..-.—~..~.~.—.-» ~.- ..WWMh~—w..

.. . my

“V...“ .4.“

“"‘-.“r""‘"‘ _.___.__,.,,_w ;_. ,..,....-~......- .N...~4 .

.. v.._.r .-.“.

-..__~

.. ‘. M?

This is an appeal to all good citizens
to ban the use of an outmoded
instrument of torture for mere com-
mercial gain. The leghold trap, in-
vented in Medieval England to catch
human beings who tried to poach on
the lands of the gentry, is still being
used unblushingly by the fur in-
dustry. It’s time to stop!

Frequently the trapped animals,
especially mother animals who at-
tempt the impossible in order to
return to their babies, gnaw off the
imprisoned foot. The fur trade calls
this “wring off”.

To prevent such escape, which
means loss of the pelt, some traps
are placed in or near water. Thus the
struggle for life of the captured
animal ends in death by drowning.

Dependingiupon the amount of air in
its lungs, it can take twenty minutes
to drown a beaver.

Looking at these photographs, what
does your conscience dictate? What
is your responsibility toward these
martyred creatures?

 




For the majority of trappers, the

cruel business is merely a sideline,
and some states even encourage
children to trap by providing a
cheaper license for them than for
adults.

Documented

Testimony of a
trapper:

horror

“One day, I saw a large beaver, a
front paw caught in a leghold' trap.
The paw was no longer covered with
skin or flesh, the bone was visible,
naked and white. At my approach, as
the beaver struggled desperately to
free itself, the bone broke with a.
sickening sound.”

Austria, Chile, Denmark, Norway,
Sweden, Switzerland, West Ger-
many, The United Kingdom and
more than fifty other countries have
outlawed the steel jaw trap. Only
traps that kill immediately or those
that hold the animal unharmed are
allowed. But in the United States
and Canada, there are no national
laws against these traps and only
I?" '1‘: ;',, 2..-:3 Island, Florida
and Massachusetts ban their use.

These photographs
were taken from a
film of the World
Society for the Pro-
tection of Animals
' (WSPA).
(Photo. Lay-out Courtesy of the European Committee

for the Protection of Seals and other Furbezring
Animals)

Animal protective organizations
throughout the United States,
Canada and the whole-world appeal
to all people of good will to aid them
in ending the torture of the
persecuted furbearers.

Copies of this leaflet are available
free on request for distribution from
the Animal Welfare Institute, P.O.
Box 3650, Washington D.C. 20007
(202) 337-2332

Name

 

Address

 

 

 

Please send me

copies of this leaflet for distribution.
Prmted in U.S.A.

 

 

 




We need a boundless ethics
which will include the
animals also.

Albert Schweitzer

Let Us
Live . . .

The aim of this
appeal is to
awaken your con-
science to save
millions of ani-
mals from the in-
conceivable agony
of the steel-jaw
trap.

Arctic fox

(Photo Fred Bruenner, Montreal)

More than 25 mil-
lion wild animals,
so called because
they live in free-
dom, are trapped
most of them with
steel jaw traps
every year, vic-
tims of a greedy
and ruthless fur
trade that feeds
on human vanity.

The Animal Welfare Institute
protests against cruel trapping
of animals for fur.

Do Not Buy

Martyred Victims
of the Steeljaw
Traps

The Animal Welfare Institute in
collaboration with the World Fed-
eration for the Protection of
Animals fights against barbaric
methods of capture and killing.

Every year tens of millions of
animals are trapped, about 16 mil-
lion in the United States alone: in-
cluding beavers, lynx, squirrels,
wolves, arctic foxes, red foxes,
muskrats and raccoons. Struggling
for days and nights, sometimes for
weeks in the well hidden steeljaw
traps, they suffer unimaginable
anguish, thirst, hunger, freezing cold
and exhaustion. In their desperate
efforts to free the trapped leg, they
only succeed in most cases in tear-
ing the flesh, breaking the bone, or
breaking their teeth against the hard
steel of the trap.

How can the intensity of their
anguish be measured?

A Canadian survey of two traplines
over a 5-year period showed that for
561 animals caught whose fur was
saleable, there were 1350 additional
victims crushed in the steel jaws.

These were what trappers call
“trash”. Animals without value for
the trapper: geese, ducks, song birds,
eagles, owls, porcupines, squirrels,
and a host of other creatures in-
cluding family pets.

The Steeljaw
Trap, A Mortal
Peril for All
Animals

The screams of this little bird
brought no help. In the jargon of
the trapping industry, this delicate
singer is mere “trash” to be thrown
out.

Thousands of traplines are laid
across the vast Canadian wilderness
and in every state of the United
States. The loss of sensitive crea-
tures useless to the fur trade, but
valuable to our ecosystem, attains in-
calculably monstrous figures.

This pamphlet has been prepared for
distribution in the United States and Canada.
Information from both countries IS Included.

 




LISTER HILL, ALA.. CHAIRMAN

PAT MCNAMARA, MICH. BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.
WAYNE MORSE, OREG. JACOB K. JAVITS, N.Y.
RALPH YARBOROUGH, TEX. WINSTON L. PROUTY, VT.
JOSEPH S. CLARK, PA. JOHN G. TOWER, TEX.

JENNINGS RANDOLPH, W. VA. LEN B. JORDAN, IDAHO Q .
HARRISON A. WILLIAMS JR., N.J. "JC 1 b ${ f $ {
QUENTIN N. BURDICK, N’. DAK. “I e a 9% en“ 9

CLAIBORNE PELL. R.I.
EDWARD M. KENNEDY, MASS. COMMITTEE ON

LABOR AND PUBLIC WELFARE
STEWART E. MCCLURE, CHIEF CLERK

JOHN S. FORSYTHE, GENERAL COUNSEL

Washington 25, D. C.
March 18, 1963

Mrs. James C. Wadlington
1205 West Main Street
Dothan, Alabama

My dear Mrs. Wadlington:

Your letter of the 15th has just been received,
and I appreciate your writing me as you have about the
research animal problem and some of the bills which
have been introduced relating to this matter.

Please know that I share your interest in better
care and treatment of animals used in research. I helped
to win enactment of the legislation and funds for the
Food and Drug Administration's new laboratory that will
provide improved quarters for the laboratory‘s animals.

I am in touch with a number of individuals and
groups who are working together in support of legislation
to insure humane treatment of experimental animals and
I am endeavoring to be helpful all I can.

Never heSitate to let me hear from you and call on
me in any way.

With kindest regards and best wishes, I am

.Very sincerely,

LH:stc

 




C://;(4&
AEe-amnﬁ/ L£:2 24L,

"

04n£maf J totsctius dzaociatéon, ﬁne, ,5;

214 So. Dwight Street \
Jackson, Michigan
0
ST 2-8548

D. E. REYNOLDS, President

Deer hottie:

got home from the Dr's today and To und gvour mos t teloo as
in the meil. ﬁlne V111 send you 9 receipt for your dues
were enclosed in th e 7ette m1

1 have been ”out of sorts” vith this find? They put it in a
nev o7quic cest s9ein end it irritates The finger seems to
be hes. 711 reel well. 1 had 9 3oo9 loo 4 9 it todey and can see
nr. con3retuleted me on ”doing ". a wonderful] job of
:ing it up, the knuckle looks as if ’ Tent through a meTfat
“hile ” mes there, is ren en 31? on me es 1 have oeen
Wu ted end 7 79 e a Ahuemetic heart condition anyway. Teve an
:TI'T To 1’ next

is had a nice meeting nottie end i wee 7 T you could make

it but 1 know how tired you must be and ' ' '-= a distance enywey.

Bo give you some ids: of our work, here is e brief resume. as

handled l9? ”nimule 99 dogs placed into new homes—53 cats into new

homes~19 dogs ant one cat found and returned to their owners. Six

dogs end sixteen Gets provided riTh euthanasia (Jet) plus one

sauir rel. l ﬁeven iound end returned and three chickens placed on

ET icru. 1T1 cotDleinT* of crue7tv received and he ndled properly.

9ev<q 9 9g Towen from their om-r ers bec:use of extreme cruelty. One

903 found deei of 9e leEP‘TF starvation removed from premises.

Several 903 houses~ ersn hey-leeshes—collars-rebies shots and licenses

provided in ceses of hardship where the animal was cved and e tem>tu

were mede to provide for the snimel to the best of the owners ability.

in Uht*9 05 369; re 9190 provided foo9. ”9 aturelly, humene education

was provided in ,atec of nevleoT 9ue to e9nor nce of what en animal

requires for oroper cs re en9 in csses of delioere te neglect—a threat

of prosecution TC:8.11 thet use reuuired.

To”) i ns made by public—-¢ 175.00 Donations by memb' T ; 940.00

veterinary 39P€~T$ 559.05—-Advertising~—i » -- ’ O; 60. OO

hailing end sunoliesw-H BO. 55-—-Wie“‘llaneouQ 3 :C ’? T rding

and feeding of stray end UUV(QT€d eonuzlc ' 599 "

Potil disbursements by check 5 935.95 TOTTl djs goursements by cash
9‘5.o9.

The report on the gee chamber was what took the cake. Betty, one of
our gel investigetors saw it in use efter 1 had it repaired. bhe

999 nightmares for about 9 Tueek end eltho' she is not emotional-

she was hedly sceren oy Thet she see. The bill for repairs came the
other day—~i 93.93 +ewnke-Went09 repeired it. 1 em 9199 thet you
can check that gas cheznber oeceus e my Tord on it vould not hold meter
I am hot an authority on 333 Chﬂﬂberﬁ. I i661 LOM6V€P , thﬂt {)14rt Of

!

 




1946774‘6/ (141—7 7’ xe/A~M,, 5/15 \3 Ii 7‘1”?“ ’\ )/L/, z {WALK /_
“Lee/Cf), / - C /L<,<_.C/( L/ C K1116 / Zf‘ﬁ'fjnim, " "” it» MW \1

/ were/ 611/ / #3:: . .
the t:roub1e is that they are not Veeoirs the Vater in t11e container
as it should be——~too many animals are crowned into the chamber and
there is no compassion for animals at that iound. Pete, the dog Varden,
is a ”deceitful charmer"-he can lie himself blue in the fees and look
, ,_ does it. After uettV gave him an 1
sr1ument about the chamber and the ha andling of animals plus OVEPCTOthnb,
he issued an order that no one be d11QV€d to the ghagbec in u se. ~
if he gets any idea of 1 c you and 1'id are, you vil1 never see trek nalber
in use or if you do, 1= ; be very careiu1 about hOV many animals are
put in and ectl I am going to keep mum about anyone coming to Jackson.
Let me knOV Vhen you Vill be here——I can't Qo Vith you becaus‘ Pete Vill
knOV that something s up for s—ure~—at less at that is Vhat 1 think. If
you Vould rather 1 30—1 Vill. if you have a stethoscope—i suggest that
you bring it @704“.

Last summer, 1 had a resort that hours after the car tage truck 11ad pickec
up the dead animals at the Found that some animals Vere iound still alive.
This eta tement Vas repeated at my reeuest, in the presence of members of
1hree societies here. 1 made plans to inspect the truck on one its
pick—up days and asked tVo members of the hdmwﬂt society to g V me

as Vitnesses and to help es I Vas on crutches. 1ne or both

people t‘ooed Pete, because the next rewort tha. ‘

threaten ed the tru ch driver if he opened his mouth

the supervisors Vho is all for Pete, and these tVo h.s . memter are and
have been friends for years and i did not knOV it E l ha1re s’g ~, told
the h.s. that L no 10ﬂg r care to represent them as their deputy. 1 did
offer only because 1 honeei ior unity but it failed.

561th hunnina and “erneth her brother, are members of this society. Ken

is ore siCent of the unim1l Kelfare sea1ue end there is comnlete unity

betVeen our societies. Zharlotte Lpdihe is another member of both sooietie
end all three are members of the h.s.

quite Eéixilk Vith,11VrV1 t01j ht 20.; c1h1 ':;x\] 1; . ebout

situetion re' Tom. ditr te 11f me 1 —- 1 - 1
statement about bEi'ﬂé 11’) favor Qaf 5 ,1 .
that Mr. Nichols asked to meet Vith the b : to tc1k about 9611151 our
animals and the h. s. invited Tom to come = the meeting and soewk in
opposition. he r,oe1te€ the invitation. Same the night the setting
and everyone Vai ted for Tom to sh‘V up A 0311 to him is that he
had ”“P trouble end could not make the me ting. They then 1” V11,V013
“had they had beeﬂ “Vitins for and he lfu heo aloud and said that “He
is the men Vho sent the animal buyer to us 1” Vdith corrected me in
regard to it being the first animal buyer to be in contact Vith Jackson,
he Vas “Ot’ sterling the former dog Varden had sold some to Ann.Vrbor
previously. he was caught in the act of puttin1 does into a hospital
tTUCK——but Vas never oroswe cuted i ﬁhat Vas before 1 got into this work

It ves ri;ht after Tom sent the dog buyer here that the suoers Vent to
Ann Vrbor to visit and they saw pictures of research and the‘“inumess to
enimals.‘ They Vent by invit‘ation. The man that Tom sent must be from
Ben %Fbor, I donﬂt tViVV that it Vas eoVViVs from oetVVit. Sdith never
hes rd the name of the buyer. 5di+h is deiendable and if she says that
ion oid not mske such a stateie nt- he (11n t make it. She Vould not lie
iut she is furious that he sent the dog buyer here.

I heard today thet they ﬁre outti n1 ”ﬂlﬂ“lS to sleep on s
1 sm going to keen Betty mLay ior aVniie to lull the cue
2; false sense of “Leurity

 




I will have a co a“.>le of other noic take e ik 6k HOV and the“ to “ﬁe

'h1f1.t they own E«e until you can come down. non't let ozone else
know that you ere 3oming—~it will leek,sure E3 Shooting.

and ii ee :nt it to her in ma i (“rtely.

Gar Gog ?ound has two EIDiC k— Egg) tiuo Is One is white Eith hloow trim--
the other ie entirelv b1eok end no ioentifioetion except the red hlinker
on the 09b. 1 find the, veree interesting.” Jr. Pete Eho Eorke at the
IINInNry IVE“ «L.o.tunaii#11.;3.e.r. twmee the tﬂzxﬂi truck; Li heer*\nha the
M'fe‘x ine t“ “1333' hegxsm entl‘ (twin oa-‘Irt gine end. about 3 hrs:-
oei gay taint: in e Yor. €€h€€t oo “tittin, of EOte 9“ hours for one week
” pr,o of of thiE. ‘;; u job ﬁt t E Pound.
:nd " - ‘“=} :1 ‘ “ -C ﬂog Eerien who
lim P ‘..L ’ Ig';r.“ end iﬂue Hﬂjjmils get
6not enough hi r .1 :- W,g I? thinking. Imagine
“nitElE in the inﬂividual :: a a‘ a = ~ater except for
Eere ,olél twice per day and . *’ Iervieoxe said three

.21 °

1 ‘Ihis in 90 degree heat.

62y 1 can operate E ree1 shelter and out this cog
“ stopped the from ~"nrJin. peop1e to oring ‘
-, . “I 1 :ﬂniuzina tEo HollerE. ima/‘aleo oherge to
animal throng i. Mi ::;amber. They have a tiny Joana —handle

everege of “9 “I :n’nai. I nonth~—End many animals oie from diet:

or eno ohr11+ ‘ E‘.e. .;3 j; 33.E‘ :Ee soent money galore trying to

it. ﬁth 9ouno ﬂ.‘.. 3 E: 92.1; 3* large animals comfortably and you

tell he hon thew onn .,:3 ea . i.$ f.r three days Eith that amount “'
Eiiﬂ tile: (Inr3311t o i‘r d 3’-,3 tiiikiirit; ﬁ-ﬁ 7

W - i, L.
‘1

got Io:r Ir" Irohoo; n 38 . pey book the money End P““
he plead Inilt, and was .ot rel”e¢enteo by an at oine‘
" - in t11e ooh ty jail, x -, pg men neuied ”inharo
: .‘ grove .5 11.1.0 eomgy he ‘
kennelman. Iimr ested et hom
:jirl took place jjl'bhe girls 91'“?. mom ever
Qie of screen they use to Iwor e:n their -no1oyeeu Y
«hu<n In til, they employeo a men in the oifioe ~'
in the .Ste te fen for nolestir; I 1. g Oboy 1 L? . .
E loone vueEt 'n the t ﬁre. _ 1; 3 he does . pin'
him to ﬂQi.h0m€ imiiiee an -‘, :: Eae (knee not
she was ”using” a 5;: y ' as i heard what
thing " In: ” told her and him .In. -~ ' not enter ‘
.fein. ohe i; “ one I told you ﬂy I FE. -ci _e so fooled that

had me write e -‘.->' to Christine 3.3':; for financial help end like
ioiot-~~i e”;, f V' nEme insteeo oi h.Vin 1, Sign the letter. bhe
money liKe i .*“l ther hole in my he I soon Iiee d on to her.

. -1“:

it 7T: cf 2'“? 9—4 :54;
O
~4
:2.)
.4—4

gm ina to bed, it is elmoet one- ﬂ1f+t end 1 an bzshed.

a...

gloom to be a member of our little SOClety, think Of how pfOU Md
Von as a member 1 Znogdentelly, the only attorney lﬂ tnlg
at, enouah to fight City ell—reeentlv joined our society.
out a wonderful man. LVEW1J on the lev el and he wente you
fr. yilliem @oler.

O m ’“h (D

3;, “n 3—4

.34 LJ, 1-3 A 1...!
x} o 5. “I
, (\

c+ S3? '31:

 




