1434

the State of Michigan that can possibly
be affected. .

( Mr. BENTLEY. May I ask the gen-
tleman another question? The gentle-

man referred to this joint statement from.

the American Humane Association and
from the American Meat Institute. This
statement was made sometime ago; was
it not?

Mr. POAGE. N o; it was mailed to every
' Member last week—on Friday, I believe.

Mr. BENTLEY. I know when it was
mailed, but when was the statement 011g-
inally put out?

Mr. POAGE. It was made sometime
this month. I do not have the exact date
before me. But it was put outsince the
ﬁrst of the year. What it did was to take
great credit," and I think properly, be-
' cause of the fact that Swift and Armour
adopted the Remington stunner for all
of their cattle. And I would say today
more than 50 percent of the cattle
slaughtered in the United States are
slaughtered under humane methods, but
’I would point out that that did not take
' place but a few months ago. ,

Mr.'FLOOD. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?

Mr. BENTLEY. I yield.

Mr. FLOOD. In the course of the gen-
tleman’s inquiry, I wonder if he would
ﬁnd out if we could deal with slaughter
on the highways under the terms of this
bill in some way. 7

Mr. BENTLEY. Well, I am not su1e
that that is appropriate at the moment.
I would like to ask my friend, the gen-
tleman from Texas, another question.
Is it not true that in the meatpacking
industry, substantial progress has been
made with respect to the adoption of
methods of humane slaughter?

Mr. POAGE. I think tremendous
progress has been made and more since
this bill was reported out of the Com-
mittee on Agriculture than for the past
100 years.

The CHAIRMAN. The time of the
gentleman from Michigan has expired.

Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
5 minutes to the gentleman from Michi-
gan [Mr. HOFFMAN].

(Mr. HOFFMAN asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
ma1 ks. )

Mr. HOFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, as
happens sometimes, I assumed that the
sole purpose of the bill was to prevent
cruelty to animals about to be made into
food and those who sponsored the bill
knew what they. were doing. As the
gentleman from Iowa [Mr. HOEVEN] said,
no one wants to torture animals any
more than they do human beings. But,
I wonder if this is just to protect ani-
mals. If that is the only purpose why
do they stick in this bill on page 1, line
5, “better working conditions”? Why
did the committee wiggle that in there?
Its sponsors must have something else in
mind. Then when they get to page 2
where it says “bef01e being shackled,
hoisted, thrown, cast, or cut” the ani-
mals are to be rendered insensible. I
cannot, for the life of me, in spite of the
discussion here earlier, see why our J ew-
ish friends are exempt from this bill.
One’s religious practices when the
method and procedure are just as pain-

that.

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE

ful as the 1eligion had no pa1t in the
killing are the same. Because the only
way I eve1 knew of killing a chicken,
and you say here in the bill “livestock,”
which includes chickens and turkeys,
though the gentleman from Texas in-

sists that chickens are not livestock—he

is mistaken—that is all nonsense. Web-
ster’s says, and one of my colleagues, the
gentleman from Illinois [Mr. MICHEL]
just gave me this when the gentleman
was talking. I quote Webster’s deﬁni-
tion of livestock: “domestic animals
used or raised on a farm—especially
those kept for proﬁt.” Now, chickens
and tu1 keys a1e livestock Do not for-
get that deﬁnition hereafter when you

go fussing a1 ound about some legisla-

tion. Now, talking about the killing of
chickens or some other animal. Who-
ever knows,‘ please tell me. I do not
know how animals are slaughtered under
the Jewish custom or practice.

Mr. MULTER. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield?

Mr. HOFFMAN. I yield. 'Gladly.

Mr. MULTER. The so-called Jewish
method of slaughter is not accomplished
by sticking the animal. It is accom-
plished by the use of a very sharp knife,
and with one stroke, and the animal
must then be killed. With the one
stroke the jugular vein is severed and
instantly from the loss of blood from the
brain the animal is made insensitive.

Mr. HOFFMAN. Of course everyone
knows that is all nonsense, because if
you cut an artery the animal does not
die instantly. If you said “a nerve” I
could ﬁgure it out. But you claim that if
yOu cut an artery of a chicken it does not
suffer any pain, but when you stick a
sharp instrument—not ease it in—up
into its brain, of a chicken as is the
method of some, one would think
that would killit quicker than cutting
an artery and letting it bleed to death.

.Mr. MULTER. Will the gentleman
yield further?

Mr. HOFFMAN. I yield.

Mr MULTER. What is your method
of killing a chicken?

Mr. HOFFMAN. It has been a long

time since I was a boy killing a. chicken -

for our Sunday dinner but my way. was
to put it on a chunk of wood, take the
broad ax or a' hatchet and cut its head
off. I am not sure it died at once, be-
cause that hen after the head was off
would ﬂop around for some time scatter-
ing blood all over. Then there was an-
other way. Pick it up by the head and
swing it around until the head came
off—the neck seemed to break and the
chicken did not ﬂop. I do not know of
any painless method of killing anything,

and I do not believe anyone else does"

unless he is an expert.

Mr. FARBSTEIN. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield?

Mr. HOFFMAN. I yield.

Mr. FARBSTEIN. Do you know that
this bill calls for a penalty? That there
is a crime under this bill?

Mr. HOFFMAN. No, I do not know
Nor do I know how much it will
cost and I do not know how many more
inspectorsor employees we will get. I
know I promised to vote against cruelty
to animals. I will have to vote against

February 4

this bill or write back to about 75 women
explaining the bill is very limited in
scope and tell them it will not accom-
plish their objective.

Mr. FARBSTEIN. Will you show me
where this bill makes a crime or mis-
statement, where such a misstatement
honestly is made?

Mr. HOFFMAN. I know the members
of the Committee on Agriculture. They
are honest.

Mr. FARBSTEIN. I appreciate that,

but I think there is a misapprehension
in this bill, because not always can an
animal be stunned by one blow.
, Mr. HOFFMAN. I have been stunned
by statements made on this ﬂoor many
times. I know on the farm when we
killed a steer we shot him with a .22 riﬂe
or hit him on the head with a maul, or
rather a sledge. That method is recog-
nized in the bill.

The CHAIRMAN. The time of the
gentleman from Michigan has expired.

Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
5 minutes to the gentleman f1 om Utah
[Mr. DAWSON].

Mr. DAWSON of Utah. Mr. Chair-
man, I realize that on a subject of this
kind we can get rather emotional, and

also that there may be injected into a

debate of this kind many humorous
statements, and amendments may be of -
feredto deter us from what we have in
mind.

I am one of the original sponsors of
this legislation. . May I confess that I
started out as a reluctant sponsor. It is
against my political philosophy generally
to'favor legislation which compels any
individual or business or industry to do
something which should be done volun-
tarily. It was only after I had deter-
mined through my own independent in-

-veStigation that—with the exception of

all too few progressive companies—the
meatpacking industry was making little.
or no progress in this ﬁeld, only then did
I decide hiimane slaughter legislation
was necessary.

I am happy to report that under the
goad of this bill and similar bills, some -
progress is now being made.

When this measure was ﬁrst intro-
duced in January of 1957, the Depart-
ment of Agriculture could not furnish
me with any estimate of what percentage
of our livestock were rendered insensible
to pain by humane methods before being
slaughtered. Now, I am informed by the
Department, more than half of all beef
slaug htered under Federal meat inspec-
tion is stunned by approved mechanical
methods.

This legislation will have no effect
upon the scores of ‘packers who already
have adapted their operations to con-
form with the minimum requirements of
humane decency called for in this bill.
This bill is directed toward that segment
of the industry which has done too little;
which will continue to do too little and
will do it too late—or never. Without
legislation, I am convinced, cruel, wan-
tonly cruel practices against millions of
animals will continue to be standaid
proceduie.

_ I do not intend to go into lengthy de-
scriptions of present methods of slaugh-
ter now followed by most of our packing

 




1958

plants. I do think it is safe to say that
there is not a Member of Congress who
would condone these methods if he wit-
nessed'them being practiced on one dumb
animal and knew that such practices
were unnecessary. I submit that corpo-
rate cruelty—if a ready alternative is
available—is a ﬁt subject for legislative
action.

The enactment of this humane slaugh-
ter bill will not force an industry into
unexplored territory. Humane slaughter

has been compulsory in Switzerland since -

.1874. England adopted a similar law in
1933. Other nations requiring humane
slaughter are Norway, the Netherlands,
Scotland, Ireland, Finland, Sweden, New
Zealand, and Denmark. Years of ex-
perience in each of these countries has
proved that humane slaughter practices
are economically beneﬁcial to the in-
dustry.

We need not go to Europe to verify
the feasibility of humane slaughter prac—
tices. Companies in the United States
have found that the immobilization of
hogs by carbon dioxide has saved more
money in the reduction of damaged meat
than was Spent for the installation of the
new equipment. Captive bolt pistol
stunning devices to replace the uncertain
poleax a1e available at $120—an invest-
ment even the most modest of plants
can afford.

I may add at this point in reply to
the gentleman from Michigan that the
cost according to a manufacturer of
Denmark of the carbon dioxide equip-
ment is about $4,500.
more expensive installation.

Why, then, one may ask is this legis-
lation necessary? Why is it being op-
posed by the packing industry gener-
ally? I can only conclude that the
industry ‘is caught in the inertia of tra-
dition. In this regard, I can only say
to the members of the industry, “Recall
your ﬁght against the Fede1al Meat In-
spection Act in the early part of this
century.” Let the packers 1eread the
arguments they -made to Congress
against that law 'which grew out; of
public revulsion against the shoddy, un-
sanitary conditions that prevailed in a
portion of their industry. We can only
hope that by reviewing their attitude
then against minimum sanitary laws—-
and comparing it with their attitude
now against minimum humane laws—-
.. they will proﬁt by experience.

Certainly this industry which contrib-
utes so much to our ﬁne standard of
living should be in the vanguard of this
ﬁght to end needless cruelty. To that
portion of the industry that his under-
taken that leadership we owe our re-
spect. For that portion that will resist
to the end, we have this bill.

Before concluding, Mr.

Speaker, I
would like to make a few personal

- observations. Many people, including
some Members of Cong1ess, seem to
think that there is something humorous

about this legislation. It has been sug-'

gested that this legislation be amended
to include lobsters, ﬁsh, and other lower
animal life. Their reasoning seems to
be that unless we can abolish all need-
less pain and cruelty in one legislative
swoop, we should take no action at all.

Hormels use a ‘
'tleman .. from Texas [Mr. POAGE].

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —- HOUSE -

To them, I can only say, man’s struggle
toward decency, kindness, and compas-
sion has been made in many little steps
but we have come a long way since the
days of Tamerlane the tyrant. This bill
is anotherstep along that path.

In closing, Mr. Speaker, I would like
once again to.pay tribute to the many
individual citizens with whom I have
had the pleasure of working on this legis-
lation. Opponents of this bill have come
to me and characterized these ﬁne people
as sentimentalists and dreamers. To my
mind, however, these people belong with
the other so—called sentimentalists and
dreamers—the ones in the past who were
so misguided to believe that child labor
could be abolished, or who argued that
madness was a subject for medicine, not
mockery. It has been a distinct pleasure
to work with them for this bill to out-
law mass cruelty to dumb animals—a
cruelty that is- indefensible because it
need not continue. '

I can only agree with them whOle-
heartedly that the needless suffering of
some 100 million animals per year is a
matter of concern for us all.

.Mr. POAGE. Mr Chai1man, I yield 6
minutes to the gentleman from New York
[Mr. MULTER].

(M.1 MULTER asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his
remarks.)

.Mr. MULTER. Mr. Chairman, my re-
marks today arise from a careful con-
sideration of H. R. 8308, which concerns
the humane slaughter of animals for
food, authored by the distinguished gen-
In
weighing the merits of this new legisla-

-tion,~-,I think it important to look back

and examine the long history behind
civilized mankind’s tradition of humane-
ness and compassion toward animals.

The humane societies vigorously ad—
vocating the P‘oage bill are a modern ex-
pression of a tradition as venerable as
recorded history. These societies have
been active in the Western World for but
a century or so of time. The tradition of
which I wish to speak today traces back
3,500 years.

Thosewho know the Bible are certain
to remember the many admonitions ad-
dressed to the Israelites in behalf of the
animals entrusted to their care. These
early Biblical injunctions laid the foun-
dation for man’s consideration for his
beasts of labor.

Six days shalt thou do thy work, but on
the seventh day thou shalt rest; that thine ox
and thine ass may have rest——

The Bible commanded.

Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he
treadeth out the corn--

The Holy Book speciﬁed to the ancient
farmer
Thou shalt not yok'e an ox and an ass to-

" gether—

The Bible ordered, lest a weaker animal
be subjected to inequitable strain.

This Biblical tradition of concern for
the welfare of animals was continued
and expanded in the Talmudic law,
which dates back about 2,000 years. The
rules of the Talmud, binding upon ob-
servant Jews, forbade a man to purchase

' method. Any

1435

animals unless he had the means to feed
them. The farmer was always required
to feed and water his livestock before
himself. The compassionate viewpoint
of the Talmud has been summed up by
one authority as:

Kindness to animals is a purer act of good-
ness‘than helping one’s neighbors. Forvit
is done without any hope of receiving a
return.

It is in this “context—the ancient J ew-
ish teachings governing kindness to live
animals—that I would like to address
myself to some other laws—the rules
governing the Jewish method of slaugh-
tering animals for food. These, as I
shall demonstrate, are all designed to
secure the utmost humanity and maxi-
mum freedom from avoidable pain.

The regulations on slaughtering ani-
mals for food—known in Hebrew as
Shechita—are derived from Holy Writ.
As interpreted and supervised by the

rabbis, Shechita insures a swift and

painless death to the animal. Religious
Jews, who observe the dietary laws, may
not eat meat slaughtered by any other
legislation interfering
with this hallowed practice would, there—
fore, inﬂict severe haidship upon law- '
abiding citizens.

Extensive care, and anatomical knowl-

edge lie behind these detailed regula-

tions for animal slaughter according to
Jewish law. Special qualiﬁcations are
set for those who slaughter, coupled with
specific requirements for the knife to be
used and the cutting technique. In
fact, a codiﬁcation of Jewish religious
law devotes no. fewer than 27 chapters to
the rules concerning the humane Jewish
nfethod of slaughter. I would like to
read to you some pertinent references
in Talmudic law as deﬁned by Chief
Rabbi Isaac Halevi Herzog of Israel. I ‘-
quote: .

The Jewish method consists of cutting the .
throat Of the animal with a single swift and
uninterrupted sweep of the knife, which is
of more than surgical sharpness and smooth-
ness, horizontally, across the throat in such
a manner that it severs the trachea, esoph-
agus, carotid arteries and jugular veins. The
“knife edge must be perfect ,* * * minutely
examined by a speciﬁc method before killing
to test its sharpness and smoothness. It
must also be examined after killing, and if
any indentation is found, the beast is re-
garded as having been improperly slaugh-
tered and its ﬂesh * * * may not be con-
sumed by Jews. * * *

The slaughtering of animals for Jewish
consumption must be carried out by an edu-
cated, reﬁned and cultured man, known to ‘
be God- fearing * * * properly trained, duly
licensed, authorized and supervised.

The purpose of this method is to
eliminate, as far as possible, pain to the
animal at the time of slaughter SOme
800 noted authorities—most of them
non-Jewish—-—in- the ﬁelds of physiology,
pathology, anatomy, and veterinary
medicine have attested that this ancient
method meets the most modern scien-
tiﬁc tests of humaneness.

Prof. August Korgh, a Nobel prize-
winning scientist of the Physiological
Institute of Copenhagen, was asked to
judge the Jewish method of slaughter
from the physiological point of View.
He reported: .. ._ .

 




1436

The sudden severance of the carotid ar-
teries, the main point of Shechita, causes
such immediate and complete drainage of
arterial blood that the brain centers are
paralyzed very quickly, at longest in a few
seconds.

, This outstanding physiologist con-
cludes: .

Having been personally at Jewish slaugh-
terings and having had occasion to observe
the animals. I do not hesitate to declare
that the Jewish method of slaughtering is a
proceeding fulﬁlling every requirement de-
manded by the-dictates of mercy.

A special study was made of Shechita
in England, and the director of the De-
partment of Applied Physiology of the
National Institute for Medical Research
came to this conclusion:

No death could be more merciful.

And here in the United States, Prof.
H. H. Dukes, head of the department of
veterinary physio-logy at New York
State Veterinary College, Cornell Uni-
versity, made repeated and detailed ob-
servations. Dr. Dukes reported:

Many physiologists and veterinarians in
past years have declared that in their opin-
ion, Shechita slaughter is humane. I join
in this assertion. -

I have carefully studied H. R. 8308 and
the proposed amendment which I under-
stand will be offered with the approval
of the distinguished Committee on Agri-
culture.

The bill in its amended form, in my
opinion, should overcome all objections
from whatever source. Based on the
expert lay and religious testimony before
the committee, and which is now before
this House, the bill will declare as a mat-
. ter of fact and as a matter of law that
Shechita, the method of slaughter of
animals in accordance with the religious
requirements and practices of the Jews,
is humane. Unlike some versions of the
bill as originally introduced, the bill no
longer declares certain methods inhu-
mane and excepts or exempts from the
operation of the statute, religious
methods. By the passage of this bill as
amended the Congress will ﬁnd and de-
clare that this-method, followed by the
Jews for more than 3,000 years, is hu-
mane.

In addition, the new section 6 as added
by the, amendment, will indicate our ad-
herence to the constitutional require-
ment that freedom of worship also pro—
hibits interference with religious prac-
tices.

In the light of such explicit recogni—
tion of the humaneness of the Jewish
method, our colleagues may reasonably
wonder why some of my coreligionists
are opposed to any legislation dealing
with the slaughter of animals for food.
First, let me emphasize that they have
been opposed to all proposed legislation
that they deemed! a threat to Shechita,
and not speciﬁcally to the Poage bill.
Secondly, I would like to take just a
moment to explain why many Jews tend
to view all legislation on this subject with
a wariness born of long and bitter ex-
perience.

_ Let us look back to the 1890’s, to Swit-
zerland. The pattern of events there
was often to be repeated in other Euro-
pean” lands. First, there were grum-

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —— HOUSE

blings and stirrings against the practice

a of shechita, and then attempts to have

legislation enacted against the Jewish
method‘of slaughter. The Swiss Gov-
ernment undertook an investigation, and
its ofﬁcial study concluded: “Shechita
cannot be considered cruelty to animals.”
Despite this clean bill of health, agita-
tion continued to increase. When the
controversy came to a head—the issue
even. reached a public referendum-—
Professor Hilty of the faculty of law of
Berne University summed it up as fol-
lows: '

Unfortunately, it is impossible not to see
that the campaign against Shechita is an at-
tempt to stir up anti-Semitism in general.

A non—Swiss Protestant observer
backed up this opinion, writing:
What we witnessed in Switzerland is anti-

‘ Semitism using the guise of humanitarian-

ism.

In Europe—fortunately, not here—the
Jews soon came to learn that even hu-
mane slaughter legislation that recog-
nized the . humaneness of the Jewish
method could be twisted later into a slur
on their tradition of humaneness, and
a thinly veiled device for stirring up
anti-Semitism. This lesson was learned
in Poland, where legislation with such an
exemption was passed in 1936. By 1939,
antishechita sentiment had been so
aroused that the method was outlawed
entirely.

As might be expected, the most ex-

treme abuses of the humane cause-took

place in Nazi Germany. Antishechita

— feelings in Germany traced back to 1892,

when a prohibition had been enacted in
Saxony. By 1910, this edict was re-
pealed after the medical faculty of the
University of Dresden had declared that
schechita was humane. Elsewhere in
Germany, various attempts to outlaw
the Jewish method of slaughter were
repeatedly defeated. In fact, it is in-
teresting to note, a similar method of
slaughter without preliminary stunning

was made obligatory for plants produc-1

ing preserved meats for the Prussian
Army. As late as 1930, the ofﬁcial View
of the health council of the Reich was
that shechita “cannot be described as
cruelty to animals.” But scientiﬁc evi-
dence and solid authority were easily
swept aside by the inhuman wave of
anti-Semitism that engulfed the Ger-
man scene.

In Hitler’s Germany, shechita was im-

mediately seized upon as an object for
special attack. This was to be expected
since it could be manipulated so readily

to serve Hitler’s propaganda purposes.
Nazi Germany adopted an outright anti-.

shechita law in 1933 for the entire Reich.
And as other nations fell under Hitler’s
oppression, the proscription of shechita
was among the ﬁrst decrees enacted.
The experience in Austria was par-
ticularly bitter. There, the welfare of
animal pets belonging to Jews was of
great concern to the Austrian humane so—
cieties—--of greater concern than the
Jewish men, women, and children who

were being hauled away in cattle cars to ,

be scientiﬁcially murdered in Nazi camps.
Is it any wonder that Jews have long
been suspicious of a type of legislation

- sincere

February 4

which, time and again, was an instru-
mentality of most anti-Semitic drives?

It may strike many people as most
strange that in one of the European
countries where the Jews suffered the
worst massacres and pogroms known in
pre-Hitler days, to wit, czarist Russia,
the problem was approached by the ap-
pointment of a commission to inquire
into the matter. The commission was
composed of outstanding scientists, path-
ologists, physiologists, physicians, and
veterinarians. After a thorough and
complete study of the matter, they re-
ported that the Jewish method of
slaughter of animals was the most hu-_
mane known, and no antishechita law
was enacted in Russia. Today, every
country except one has repealed anti-
shechita laws. ,

Fortunately, Americans of the Jewish
faith can approach humane animal
slaughter legislation with greater secu—
rity and less fear than their European
forefathers and coreligionists. Never-
theless, I think the sponsors of this leg-
islation should put themselves on record
unequivocally so that nothing in their
proposals may ever be construed as de-

limiting the right of Jews to practice

Shechita—an essential element of the
Hebraic tradition of kindness to animals,
and—to the observant Jew-——-a holy rite
commanded by God Himself.

Mr. Chair,man I would indeedbe 1e-
miss if I did not take a moment to pay a
tribute to the gentleman from
Texas [Mr. POAGE], chairman of the sub-
committee which had this delicate situ-
ation in charge, and all of his colleagues
on that committee, as well as to our dis-
tinguished majority leader from Massa-
chusetts [Mr. MCCORMAC’K] who made
certain that there was ample time to
offer the amendatory language. They
approached the problem with a sincere
desire, born out of their own religious
faiths, that no matter how different the
practice of another faith may be from
their own, they would respect it and -
would protect it. They leaned over
backward so as to be sure to give no
offense. Theirs was the approach of the
true American patriot, breathing spirit
and life into the Declaration of Inde-
pendence and to the guaranties of free-
dom of religion written into our Consti-
tution. We are most appreciative of
their good will, which has produced a
good bill.

Mr. HOFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield?

Mr. MULTER. I yield.

Mr. HOFFMAN. If the committee
wanted to prevent cruelty to animals
why did they not include the branding
of Texas cattle?

Mr. MULTER. Piobably they should
have done that and also included t1 ap-

. ping and hunting and other things, but

we have to take these things one step
at a time. .

Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield?

Mr. MULTER. I yield to the gentle«
man from New York.

Mr. KEARNEY. If this bill passes
and ‘ls enacted into law, has the gentle-

.man any idea how many more Federal

employees it will put on the payroll?

 




14.38

In April 1957. a delegation of Jewish
leaders representing 22 major Jewish na—
tional organizations and speaking for
almost the entire Jewish community of

the United States submitted a statement,

to the Subcommittee on Livestock of the
House Committee on Agriculture, in
which were outlined the views of Ameri-
can Jewry on humane slaughtering. It
was pointed out by them that not only
do the bills then being considered by the
subcommittee not meet the objections. of
the Jewish community, but that they also
constitute an infringement on,.the exer-
cise of religious freedom in this country.
Even after the present bill, H. R. 8308,
was revised and introduced in June by
the gentleman from Texas [M12 POAGEI,
it was felt by the Jewish community that
_ it did not meet the objections raised by
its spokesmen in April.

The Jewish community is speciﬁcally
alarmed that the adoption of this bill, as
' presently worded, would have the follow-
ing consequences:

First. It will undermine Jewish dietary
practices of Kashruth, namely, kosher
meat will either no longer be obtainable
or, if obtainable, will be so expensive that
many families will not be able to afford
it.

Second. It may cause resentment and

perhaps some dissension between Jews

and non-Jews because Jewish religious
practices will require more
of animals.

Third. It may encourage other coun-
tries as well as some of our States, to
adopt similar laws which would be harm-
ful to Jewish slaughtering methods and
other religious practices.

To these objections, I should like to
add the observation that to my knowl-
edge this would be the first time in
American history that the Federal’Go‘v-
ernment will be taking steps to interfere
in religious ritual matters. I am not so
sure that this .is a desirable step. I am
not so sure that I would like to see such
a precedent established. Today it may
strike the Jewish faith, tomorrow it may
be the Catholic or Protestant religion.
We have a long and established reputa-
tion for leaderShip in the ﬁeld of religious
freedom. I should not like to see the
enactment of a bill containing a section
which might be interpreted as an ofﬁcial
sanction of religious discrimination—.—
which is what section 2 implies.

For the reasons cited above, I submit
a substitute for the entire section 2 and
add a new section 6 which is not now
contained in the bill. The substitute
prescribes two methods of slaughtering
and handling which are found to be
humane. Of these, the second applies to
the 1eligious faiths and reads as follows:

(b) By slaughtering in accordance with
the ritual requirements of the Jewish faith
or any other religious faith that prescribes
a method of slaughter whereby the animal
suffers loss of consciousness by anemia of
the brain caused by the simultaneous and
instantaneous severance of the carotid

arteries with a sharp instrument.

And the new section .to be added at,

the end of the bill states:

Nothing in this. act shall be construed to
prohibit, abridge, or in any way hinder the
religious freedom of any person or group
toslaughter and prepare for the slaughter

slaughtering ,

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —- HOUSE

of livestock in conformity with the practices
and requirements of his religion.

It is my understanding that these
amendments are acceptable to the vast
majority of the Jewish community and
its religious leaders.

The testimony before our committee,
as well as the written representations
made to our committee on behalf of the
various humane societies that have been
urging the enactment of this bill, all
affirmatively establish that shechi-
tah—the method of slaughtering in ac-
cordance with the Jewish faith—is a
humane method of slaughterng animals.
None of us question that.

It is important, therefore, to note that
this bill does not create an exemption or
an exception on behalf of those of the
Jewish faith; rather it declares in so
many words that their method is
humane. To make assurance doubly
sure, we added the additional section
which repeats the constitutional man-
date that nothing we do shall interfere
with religious freedom.

Mr. Chairman, I urge you and all my
colleagues to adopt this substitute and
amendment so that we may proceed with

‘ﬁnal passage of this bill.

Mr. COOLEY. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?

Mr. ANFUSO. I yield to the gentle«
man from North Caiolina.

Mr. COOLEY. May I say to the House
that the amendments now being pro-
posed by the gentleman f1 0m New Y01k
[Mn ANFUSO] were considered by the
House Committee on Agriculture. My
recollection is that they were unani-
mously approved by the members ,of that
committee. I certainly am in faVOr of
the amendments and will vote for them.
I hope the House will adopt them.

The CHAIRMAN. The time of the
gentleman from New York has expired.

Mr. ANFUSO. Mr. Chairman, I ask
unanimous consent to proceed for 1 addi-

tional minute.

Mr. MASON. I object, Mr. Chairman.

(Mr. ANFUSO asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re—
marks.)

Mr GROSS. M1. Chai1man, I move
to strike out the last word.

M1. Chai1man, I should like to ask
the gentleman from Texas orsomeone
the difference between the knife killing
of livestock as used by the Jewish faith
and the knife killing of livestock by
anyone else?

Mr. POAGE. The difference is this:
The Jewish faith requires such use, of
the knife as to bring about instantane-
ous death. The slaughterng in the
packinghouses on the wheel, which most
of the large packers have long used, in-
volves not a cutting of the throat at all
but rather merely a sticking of :the ani-
mal with the deliberate intention to
leave the animal alive when it bleeds, on
the theory that the animal bleeds better
when alive than after death occurs. 80,
the packinghouse method today is de-
liberately intended to leave the animal
alive. The Jewish method results in in-

stantaneous death. That is the differ-.

ence.

Mr. GROSS. When an animal is
killed by the Jewish method, is it
drained of blood? ,

February 4

Mr. POAGE. I certainly would not
want to pass on that. I do not know.
But it satisﬁes the Jewish belief. If
anybody likes that meat, that is per-
fectly satisfactory with me. I never
have been able to tell them apart, my-
self.

Mr. GROSS. Then there is no differ-
ence in the present method of killing
hogs by sticking them and the method
used by the Jewish faith with respect to
other livestock?

Mr. POAGE. I just got through
pointing out that there is a very decided
difference. There is a difference of car-
rying a live, conscious animal through
the air, shackled by one leg for a good
long time, and that of having a dead
animal. That is the difference.

Mr. GROSS. I doubt if there is any
more pain inﬂicted on the animal by
being swung up slowly 'on a wheel than
there is in branding cattle in Texas or
some other southwest part of the coun—
try. I can think of other handling of
livestock, and so can the gentleman—I
do not care to discuss it on the House
ﬂoor, and it is not cover ed in this bill——
that is more painful than anything you
have talked about so far. ‘

Mr. POAGE. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?

Mr. GROSS. I am glad to yield to the
gentleman.

Mr. POAGE. George Hormel 82 Co.
are not in business for their health.
They pay dividends the same as any
other profitmaking institution tries to.
They established in the neighboring
State close to the gentleman’s district a
rather modern plant and at very con-
siderable expense the carbon-dioxide
chamber for hogs not because they were
philanthropic but because they felt it
would save them money on the loss of
meat.

Mr. GROSS. Now t e gentleman is
using my time, but the uestion I orig-
inally asked was, how humane is the
slaughter by the Jewish faith? What is
the difference between the two, that is
what I want to know.

Mr. POAGE. I do not think the
method used in accordance with the
Jewish faith is at all inhumane.

Mr. HOFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield?

Mr. GROSS. I yield.

Mr. HOFFMAN. He says over there in
one case they stick the knife in and in
the other case they ease the knife in.

Mr. GROSS. Oh, I see.

M1'.‘MULTER. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?

Mr. GROSS. I am glad to yield to the
gentleman from New York.

Mr. MULTERL Despite what was just
said by the last gentleman who tried to
answer your question, he did not describe
the Jewish method of slaughter of ani—
mals. It is not done by easing—it is done
by one swift stroke which instantan-
eously severs both the jugular vein and
the carotid arteries immediately insensi—
tizing the animal.

Mr. GROSS. The meat that you use
or that the Jewish faith uses, let me say,
is drained of blood; is it not? You want "
the carcass drained of blood; do you
not?

 




1958.

Mr. MULTER. Immediately after the
animal is killed, the blood is drained
out of them.

Mr. GROSS. They cannot be drained
if there is a complete paralyzation of the
animal by the knife method that you
use; is that not correct?

Mr. MULTER. No, that is not so.

Mr. GROSS. If there is complete
paralyzation, how can an animal be com-
pletely and properly bled?

Mr. MULTER. There is a difference
between paralyzing and inSensitizing
caused by the loss of blood from the
brain.

Mr. GROSS. I cannot agree with that.

Mr. Chairman, I am for‘the humane
slaughter of livestock. By all means let
us do all we can to eliminate inhumane-
ness wherever it may be found, but let
us be fair and end inhumane practices on
the part of everyone.

Mr. HOFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, I rise
in support of the amendment.

(Mr. HOFFMAN asked and was given
permission to revise and extend hisre-
.marks. )

Mr. HOFFMAN. Of—course, Mr. Chair-
man, if you cut an artery, the blood runs
out. But if someone of the Jewish faith
sticks a sharp instrument in the carotid
artery, we have just been told the animal
dies instantly. But, if someone else cuts
the artery—and the gentleman from
Texas did say “to ease the knife in” the
blood does not run _ out as soon;
the animal does not die at once but lin-
gers on and suffers. Of course, what the

gentleman has forgotten is yesterday’s
paper carried a story about an accident

where a man in California was hurt. I

understand he fell through a plate glass -

window—but listen and I will read the

story—please—you gentlemen who have

been telling committee members that
when a jugular vein or carotid artery is
cut—death is instantaneous, Mr. MUL-

TE‘R, Mr. POAGE, listen, I read:

No PULSE, NO RESPIRATION, No BLOOD PRES-
SURE—‘CORPSE’ WITH THROAT OUT IN BaAWL
IS REVIVED BY FAST HOSPITAL ACTION
SAN FRANCISCO, February 3~Prompt action

by a surgeon and two ambulance stewards

was credited today with saving the life of a

man who was “legally dead” as the result of

a. severed jugular vein.

Authorities said Veldon Averett, 37, fell

through a plate glass window in a tavern.

in a scufﬂe with a drinking companion. His
. jugular vein and carotid 'artery were severed.

“The man was legally dead when I ex«
amined him,” said the surgeon, Dr. Sanford
Marcus. “There was no pulse, no respira-
tion and no blood pressure.

“He had a wound in his throat big enough
to shove your ﬁst through. He didn’t have
enough blood left in him to keep a chicken
alive. .

“But Steward Joseph Lanthier told me he
thought Averett’s eyes ﬂuttered once on the
way in, so I thought it was worth a try to
bring him back to life.”

Dr. Marcus, a ﬁgure in a sensational kid—
naping of his infant son two years ago, said
he ﬁrst shot adrenalin into the heart “and
it responded. ” Next the damaged artery and
blood vessel were clamped off.

“We pumped in three pints of plasma,
ﬁve pints of whole blood and one pint of a
chemical blood substitute,” he said. “Within
an hour he regained consciousness and
within three hours his condition was good
enough to permit transfer to San Francisco
Hospital.

“It was a case of everyone doing the right

' thing as fast as he could,” the surgeon said.

“The steward promptly cut down the loss of
bloOd at the scene with compresses, and am-
bulance driver John Harte drove the 3-mile
round trip in about nine minutes.”

- Dr. Marcus’ newborn son was kidnaped
from a hospital nursery in 1955 by a Stock-
ton, Calif., woman. The child was re-
covered unharmed nine‘ days later.

Did the gentleman from Texas, the
gentleman from Missouri get that—jug-
ular vein and carotid artery both—both
cut—but the man lived. I wonder if the
gentleman from Texas [Mr. POAGE] will
tell me, if the purpose was in preventing
cruelty to animals, why did you not put
something in the bill to preVent brand-
ing cattle before sending them to market.
Why did you not put something in there
about roping, throwing, and branding
your cattle with a red-hot iron before
you send them to market. Does burn-
ing the hair and some of the hide off a
steer cause pain—if not, why does the
steer bawl—just out of joy? Why did.
you not prohibit branding in the bill? I

am waiting. You are listening.

Mr. POAGE. If the gentleman wants
to know why, it is because the commit-
tee wrote a bill relating to the slaughter
of animals and not with reference to the
branding of animals.

Mr. HOFFMAN. In other w01ds, it
is all right to torture them before you kill
them, if they are not being slaughtered
for food?

r. POAGE. The branding of ani-
malMs has nothing to do with the
slaughter.

Mr. HOFFMAN. No? It is all right
to burn part of the hide off while brand-
ing but, do not hurt them while killing
them for market; why not protect ani-
mals while getting them ready to ship as
well as after? What nonsense—what
utter nonsense to pretend making an ef—
fort to prevent cruelty while leaving the
red-hot iron free.

Mr. POAGE. The gentleman asked
me a question and yielded to me to an-
swer and now he is putting words in my
mouth that I did not say. .

Mr. HOFFMAN. All right, now then
you say them yourself. Why did you

not prohibit branding in this bill if your

objective was the preventing of c1ue1ty
to animals.

Mr. POAGE. Because this committee
was writing a bill relating to the
slaughtering of animals. We did not
cover the whole ﬁeld of cruelty to ani-
mals, human beings, ﬂies, grasshoppers-
or a great many other things

Mr. .7 HOFFMAN. Or Congressmen.
But you are putting this bill across by
stating its purpose is to prevent cruelty
to animals—that it does not do.

Mr. POAGE. We did cover a ﬁeld in
which the United States Government is

. spending your tax money and mine.

Mr. HOFFMAN. That is long enough.
That is long enough—that is your an-
swer.

Mr. Chairman, I decline to yield fur-
ther.

Mr. POAGE. This is the ﬁeld in
which the Government of the United
States is spending our good tax money.

Mr. HOFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, I de-
cline to yield further. If the bill was

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —— HOUSE 14.39

devised to prevent cruelty to animals, it
was no trouble to protect the animal
while on the road to the slaughtering
pens. And on this business of slaugh-
tering animals, does it apply to the
farmers? No, because this is interstate
and foreign commerce. The committee
does not touch the animal being slaugh¥
tered by, the farmer—only those who
‘sell to Uncle Sam.

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.

Mr. FARBSTEIN. Mr. Chairman, I
move to strike out the last word.

Mr. Chairman, I hesitate to take issue
with my colleague from New York [Mr.
MULTER] in 'some of the statements he
has made. Perhaps after I have ﬁnished
he can explain what I am going to read.

I have in my hand a telegram, dated
February 3, 1958. This is from the Union ,-
of Orthodox Rabbis of the United States
and Canada. It gives the names of .
three rabbis and says further that they
are members of. the Preisium. It is ad-’
dressed to me. It read as follows:

In behalf of our organization, the high-
est rabbinical authority in the United States,
we urge you to address the House of Repre-
sentatives tomorrow and vigorously oppose
H. R. 8308, regardless Of any amendment:
All rumors of acquiescence in any amend-
ment by any orthodox organization are false
and groundless. Please emphasize following
points: From historical viewpoint American
Jewish community has cause for deep con-
cern- over such legislation, for experience
demonstrates that it leads in time to agita-
tion against shechita itself. Moreover, ex-
cept schechita the methods prescribed in
the bill as humane are highly dubious. This
demonstrates that further study and re-
search ‘are necessary before any legislation
is proposed. Your strong opposition to bill
will be an invaluable service to religious
Jewry.

Now, objections raised by these gen-
tlemen can be explained in this fashion;
In England there was enacted a law
similar to this, that called for humane
slaughter, and it was described there ~
practically as described here. Despite
the fact that that is now the law in .
England, I think last year there was
introduced another bill. At least there
was an attempt made to introduce a bill .
into the Parliament declaring all ritual
slaughtering or all schechita illegal.

- Fortunately there were not enough

votes to permit the introduction of that
bill; and, therefore, today the law in
England still permits schechita. Never-
theless, there was this tremendous ag ita-
tion after the passage of the ﬁist hum
mane—slaughtering bill which sought, to
make schechita illegal. Furthermore, in
this bill, as I see it—I may be wrong——
there is a criminal penalty.

Page 3, lines 12 to 18, states: 1

After December 31, 1959, each supplier
from which any‘ livestock products are pro-
cured by any agency of the Federal Govern-
ment shall be required by such agency- to
make such statement of eligibility under
this section to supply such livestock prod-
ucts as, if false, will subject the maker
thereof to prosecution (18 U. S. C. 287).

This suggests that one who makes .what
is considered a false statement in the .
sale of slaughtered animals to the Gov-
ernment is guilty of a crime. Section
2 says, in effect, that all animals to be

 




1440

considered humanely slaughtered shall

be rendered insensate to pain by a single .

blow or gunshot. It is a known fact
that there is failure in rendering insen-
sate these animals by a single gunshot.
This raises the question whether or not
one who makes representation to the
Government of this supposedly humane
method of slaughtering, is guilty of a
false statement within the law when it
turns out that they had not been slaugh-
tered humanely because they were not
rendered insensate by a single blow. It
has been suggested by the gentleman
from Texas [Mr. POAGE] that the inter-
pretation is ~ with reference to the
method. ' '

I am not satisﬁed that anyone slaugh-
tering animals who to the best of his
ability has tried to slaughter them in a
humane way and so states may not still
be subjected to being accused of the
commission of a crime.

The CHAIRMAN. The time of the
gentleman from New York has expired.

Mr. COOLEY. Mr. Chairman, I rise in
support of the amendment.

I would like to say to the gentleman
from New York that it seems to me
rather strange .that these individuals
should wait until February 3 to complain
' about this bill that has been under con-
sideration for practically 2 long years.

Furthermore I would like to point out
that the section referred to does not de-
ﬁne any criminal offense; it provides
only that if an individual makes a false
statement he will be subjected to prose-

cution under a law which is already on ,~

the statute books. ,

Let me say further that these amend-
ments, if I understand them, were actu-
ally written by Jewish rabbis and they
were written for the purpose of making
this bill acceptable to those of the Jewish
faith.’

Now the gentleman from” New York
[Mr. FARBSTEIN] certainly knew what he
was talking about in regard to the pres-
ent amendment. . He collaborated in the
preparation of the amendments. They
were submitted by the gentleman from
New York [Mr. ANFUSO]. We did not
have these provisions in the bill origin-
ally, but in an effort to make the bill
acceptable we are now providing these
amendments which were considered by
the committee and I think unanimously
approved by the committee.

Mr. FARBSTEIN. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield to me for an answer?

Mr. COOLEY. I wish the gentleman,

would answer this question: Has the
gentleman any amendment that is better
than these we are‘ presenting?

Mr. FARBSTEIN. I do not have any
amendment; I do not seek to amend this
bill,’ although I understand the gentle-
man from South Carolina [Mr. DORN]
has an amendment to the bill providing
for further study, because I understand
the Department of Agriculture itself
does not know the deﬁnition of the word
“humane.” That is the reason they have
been opposed to this bill since its incep
tion. '

How can you possibly . hold a man
guilty of a crime when the bill itself
does not give a deﬁnition of the word

“humane” ‘2, \

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE

Mr. COOLEY. The gentleman appar-
ently has not read this bill, or certainly
he does not interpret it correctly. I
have just pointed out, and I do so again,
that the bill states that if a person
makes a false statement he can be prose-
cuted under another law. Does the gen-
tleman want to strike that out and let
him make false statements with im-
punity?

Mr. Chairman, I say that this is an
important measure. I do not believe it
should be regarded as nonsense, as it has
been referred to here during this debate.
If you could see the tremendous amount
of—I will call it propaganda, that has
come to us from every nook and corner
of this great Republic you would be
amazed. Every humane society in
America has been communicating with
us constantly during the past 2 years.
This is a matter in which the American
people are intensely interested. The bill,
of course, is not perfect, but it is a step
in the right direction and is a step that
we should have taken long ago.

Mr. ANFUSO. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield? , '

Mr. COOLEY. I yield to the gentle-
man from New York.

Mr. ANFUSO. I should like to state,
Mr. Chairman, as most of the Members

here know, no one is more interested in :

protecting any religious faith than I. I
was very patient 3 with the committee
that came before us. I think some 200
rabbis from throughout the country
were represented.

I am astonished. that at this late date
there should be some objection. The
chairman of our subcommittee would be
the last person in the world to deny any
religious freedom, and I certainly would
be. I thought when we received this last
amendment which arrived, incidentally,
only this morning-rthe ﬁnal correction
was made by me this morning—I
thought we were taking care of the ob-
jections, and I am very disappointed at
this turn of events. ,

Mr. FARBSTEIN. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield? '

Mr. ANFUSO. I do not have the ﬂoor.

Mr. COOLEY. I will yield to the gen-
tleman from New York.

Mr. FARBSTEIN. The gentleman
knows that the Jewish religion has 3
sects, 3 principal ones at least. There
is the orthodox, there is the reform,
and there is the conservative. one is
an offshoot of the other, just as in the

Christian religion you have the Prot-'

estant, then you have the Baptists, and
so on. The orthodox Jew adheres
strictly to the Bible. ‘

Mr. COOLEY. Mr. Chairman, I do
not yield further to have a lecture on
the Jewish faith. I want to ask the

. gentleman, is he in favor of humane

slaughter ,or inhumane slaughter?

Mr. FARBSTEIN. Of course, I am
in favor of humane Slaughter. There is
no one opposed to humane slaughter.
The Bible has always contended that we
are in favor of humane slaughter.

Mr. COOLEY. Why does not the gen-
tleman vote for the bill, then?

Mr. FARBSTEIN. This 'bill does not
do anything but what has been done.

February 4

The CHAIRMAN. The time of the
gentleman from North Carolina has ex-
pired.

Mr. KEATING. Mr. Chairman, I
move to strike out the requisite number
of words and I do this only for the sake
of clariﬁcation. I am a little bit con-
fused by the discussion that has taken '
place on‘these amendments. The gen-
tleman from New York refers to an
amendment in the remarks which he re-
cently made, and I refer to the gentle—
man from New York [Mr. ANFUSO].
Earlier in the debate I interrogated the
gentleman from Texas about an amend-
ment which he proposed to offer or
which the committee would offer. My
question is, Are those two amendments
one and the same? .

Mr. POAGE. The gentleman asked
me about the proposed amendment ﬁt-

,ting in with the present language. I

tried to give him what' might be called
the Ramseyer rule, the new language
and the changed, language. The amend-
ment is to strike out all of the existing
language and .to insert new language,
but it comes down to exactly what I said
to the gentleman and what I tried to
point out, where it would change words
and insert new words. He struck out
the entire section. ’

Mr. KEATING. The gentleman from
TeXas feels that the amendment as
offered or as mentioned by the gentle-
man from New York is in accordance
with the colloquy we had earlier in the
debate? ,

Mr. "POAGE. Exactly. It comes out
exactly the same.

Mr. KEATING. I thank the gentle-
man.

Mr. DAWSON of Utah. Mr. Chair-
man, will the gentleman yield?

Mr. KEATING. I yield to the gentle-
man from Utah.

Mr. DAWSON of Utah. I would like
to direct this question to the gentleman
from Texas. I have a copy of‘ a letter
which the gentleman inserted in the
RECORD on behalf of the Rabbinical As-
sembly of America, and the United Syna— ,
gogue of America, representing the con-
servative rabbinate and the conserva-
tive congregations, the Central Confer-
ence of American Rabbis and the Union
of American Hebrew Congregations,
representing the reform rabbinate and
reform congregations, and the Ameri-
can Jewish Congress. This would in-
clude practically all of the Jewish or-
ganizations? Am I correct about that? ,

Mr. POAGE. It includes all except the
Union of Orthodox Rabbis. I know of
none other.

Mr. AN FUSO. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?

Mr. KEATING. I yield to the gentle- '
man from New York.

Mr. ANFUSO. I would like to say in
defense of the rabbis and the associa—
tions which appeared‘before our com-r
mittee and also which consulted me in
my ofﬁce, that they did express views as
stated before by my esteemed colleague
from New York [Mr. FARBSTEIN]; but,
then, when they were told that we must
have legislation of this nature, which is
long overdue, and they were given the

 




.1958

protection which my amendment seeks
to give to them, they were satisﬁed with
it.

Mr. MULTER. Mr. Chairman, I move
to strike out the requisite number of
words.

(Mr. MULTER asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re—
marks.)

Mr. MULTER. Mr. Chairman, I want
to be sure that we are not going to be
confused by any of the statements which

have been made, all made in the utmost,

of good faith. There are many sects of
the Jewish religion, and even divisions
Within each sect. It would, indeed, be
utopian if all religious sects could agree.
I am not going to give you a lecture,
however, on the Jewish religion.

I do want to make clear, if possible,
how near to agreement we have come.

Now, I said to you before that a letter
has been made part of this RECORD by
the gentleman from Texas [Mr. POAGEl,
dated January 29, 1958, in which Mr. Leo
Pfeffer writes on behalf of these organ-
izations: First, the American Jewish
Congress—a national organization of
Jewish laymen and rabbis Of all persua-
sions; second, the Rabbinical Assembly

of America—that is, the national organ-r

ization of the conservative rabbis; third,
the United Synagogues of America—that
is the national organization of conserva—
tive laymen; fourth, the Central Con-
ference of American Rabbis—~the na—
tional organization of reformrabbis; and
ﬁfth, the Union of\ American Hebrew
Congregations—the national organiza-
tion of reform laymen.

Mr. Pfeffer says in his letter, refer-
ring to the amendment which the gen-
tleman from New 'York [Mr. ANFUso]
has offered and aboutwhich we are
speaking now, after setting forth this
amendment, Mr. Pfeffer writes to Mr.
POAGE, “With this amendment, I am au-
thorized by the organizations listed above
to inform you that these organizations
and their membership have no Opposi-
tion to H. R.’ 830%,” Incidentally, the
American Jewish"”Committee, another
national association of Jewish leaders,

ﬁnds nofault with this new language:

I want to compliment every last
Member who has participated in this,
Jewish and non—Jewish alike, for their
high-minded approach to this problem
in order to try to keep off this ﬂoor any
semblance of an argument about re-
ligion. Having accomplished that, I am
not going to get you into an intra-
Jewish conﬂict on this matter.

Let me give you this assurance, as one
born into the orthodox Jewish faith and
who today is a member of the President’s
Council of Yeshiva University, which in-
cludes a theological college, one of whose
main functions is to ordain orthodox
rabbis, that neither all of the orthodox
rabbis nor all of the orthodox Jews are
Opposed to this bill and that many, if not
most, of them will approve it as
amended. This organization whose tele-
gram has been read to youhas no right
to talk for allof the- orthodox rabbis nor
for all orthodox Jews. The signers of
that telegram cannot claim unanimity
within their own organization. They
certainly have no right to pretent to be

1'

.

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —— HOUSE

the highest rabbinic authority anywhere.

Eveiy other organization of orthodox
rabbis, as well as those of the conserva-
tive and reform rabbinate, will reject
that claim.

Let us not get into that. I say to you
with all the vigor at my command that
this bill offers no offense to any religious
group; it protects them all, and it is a
better bill if this amendment prevails.

Mr. CHELF. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?

Mr. MULTER. I yield to the gentle- .

man from Kentucky.

Mr. CHELF. Is it a fair statement to
say that this amendment will satisfy the
great majority or the vast majority of
folks of the Jewish faith?

Mr. MULTER. I would 1athe1 say
that it will satisfy the overwhelming ma-
jority of the people of Jewish faith.

Mr. CHELF. That is what we non-
Jews want to know. 'We Want to be sure
not to interferewith any religious ob-
servance.

The CHAIRMAN. The question is on
the amendment.

The amendment was ag1eed to.

Mr. D'ORN of South Carolina.
Chairman, I Offer an amendment.

The Clerk read as follows:

Amendment offered by Mr.‘ DORN of South
Carolina:
enacting clause in the bill. as amended by
the committee and substitute therefor the
following: “That the Congress ﬁnds that the
use of humane methods in the handling,
transporting, and slaughtering of livestock
andr poultry prevents needless suffering;
brings about improvement of products; and
produces other beneﬁts for producers, proc-
essors, and consumers which tend to ex-

Mr.

pedite the orderly ﬂow of livestock and poul- ,_
try and their products in interstate and for-

eign commerce. It is therefore declared to
be the policy of the CongreSs to provide for
study and research to develop improved
methods of handling, transporting, and
slaughtering, and to encourage acceptance

~ and use of such methods to the end that

livestock and poultry shall be handled,
transported, and slaughtered only by hu-
mane methods.-

“SEC. 2. The Secretary Of Agriculture is
authorized to conduct, assist, and foster
research, investigation, and experimentation
to develop ‘and to encourage the adoption of
improved methods of handling, transporting,
and slaughtering livestock and poultry.

“SEC. 3. To assist in implementing the pro-
visions of section 2, the Secretary .is author-
ized to establish an advisory committee.
The functions of the advisory committee
shall be to consult with the Secretary and
other appropriate ofﬁcials of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture and to make recom-
mendations relative to (a) the research au-

thorized in section 2; and (b) Obtaining the

cooperation of the public, producers, farm
organizations, industry groups, humane as-
sociations, and Federal and State agenciés
in the furtherance of such research and the
adoption of improved methods. The chair-
inan of the committee shall be an ofﬁcial
of the Department of Agriculture designated
by the Secretary. The committee shall
consist of not more than eight members
other than the chairman—and shall be ap-
pointed by the Secretary and shall include
representatives of ’ (a) the public, includ—
ing groups concerned with humane handling
of animals, (b) producer and industry
groups, and (c) scientiﬁc and professional
groups. The committee shall meet at the
call Of the Secretary or his designee. Com-
mittee members other than the chairman

Strike out everything after the,

* of legislation?

‘ homa.

1441

shall not be deemed to be employees of the
United States and are not entitled to com-
pensation, but the Secretary is authorized
to allow their travel and subsistence ex-
penses necessary in connection with their
attendance at meetings called by him or his
designee for the purpose of this section.

“SEC. 4. The Secretary of Agriculture shall
report to the Congress on January 1,1959,
and annually thereafter concerning actions
taken pursuant to this act.

‘ SEC. 5. There are hereby authorized to be
appropriated such sums as ‘may be neces«
sary to carry out the provisions of this act."

Amend title to read as follows: “A bill
to promote the development and use of
improved methods for the humane han-
dling, transporting, and slaughtering of
livestock and poultry in interstate and
foreign commerce. ”

Mr. DORN of South Carolina. Mr.
Chairman: I ask unanimous consent to
proceed f01 3 additional minutes and to,
revise and extend my remarks.

The CHAIRMAN Is there objection
to the 1equest of the gentleman fiom
South Carolina?

There was no objection.

Mr. DORN of South Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, there is not a single person .
in this great House who is opposed —tO
the humane slaughter of animals or the
humane treatment of animals. .Cer-
tainly for those of us who farm, whose
only occupation other than being here '
is that of agriculture, it is in our inter-1
est; and the interest of the country to
promote the humane handling andcare
Of animals. I can assure you that that
is the‘practice on the farm that it is my
privilege to own and operate.

Mr. Chairman, this debate today has'
served to bring out the fact that there
is much confusion concerning this type
of legislation. You will note that in the
committee report—and I hope you read
it carefully—one of the principal rea.-
sons advanced for the passage of this
legislation was the fact that a certain
number of letters had been received by
the committee and the members of the
subcommittee.

Now, what are the facts conCerning
public support of this compulsory type _
I have here a statement
from the American Farm Bureau oppos-
ing the so—called Poage bill. I have
here , a1 statement from Mr. True D.

‘ Morse, Acting Secretary of Agriculture,

sent to me this morning opposing this
legislation. Now, mind you, here we
want to vest in the Secretary of Agricul-
ture’s ofﬁce the enforcement of a com-
pulsory law that he is not in sympathy
with and that he is not sure what the
House intends when it deﬁnes “humane ‘
slaughter of animals.”

I have here a telegram from the Na-
tional Wool Growers Association en-
dorsing my substitute bill and oppOsing
the Poage bill.

I have here a telegram from Mr. Rad-'
ford Hall, executive secretary of the
Cattlemen’s Association in Denver, Colo.
I have here a telegram from Mr. Smith,
president of the South Carolina Live-
stock Council. One from the Cattle-4
men’s Association of the State of Okla-
The National Grange is opposed
to compulsory legislation.

 




1442’

DENVER, COLO., February 3, 1958.
Hon. W. J. BRYAN DORN,
House Oﬁice Building,
Washington, D. C.:

We understand that humane slaughter
legislation is to be considered on ﬂoor of
House tomorrow. For your information I
call your particular attention to the follow-
ing resolution approved by the American Na-
tional Cattlemen’s Association, in convention
January 9, 1957:

“HUMANE SLAUGHTERING

“Whereas the American Humane Associ-
ation is backing legislation to force drastic
changes in methods of slaughtering food ani-
mals; and

“Whereas the packers have for some time
cooperated in a joint committee with the
American Humane Association in improving
methods of handling livestock. Therefore
be it

“Resolved, That we strongly favor humane
treatment of livestock but urge that progress
in this matter be made through the, con-
tinued cooperation of packers and the hu-
'mane association rather than through legis-
lation.”

RADFORD HALL,
Executive Secretary.

CHARLESTON, S. C.,, February 3, 1958.
Congressman WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN

DORN, ’

House Oﬁice Building, _
Washington, D. 0.:

South Carolina Livestock Council has
asked entire South Carolina delegation to
support your alternate humane slaughter
bill, H. R. 5320. Many thanks and good luck
to you.

R. B. SMITH, President,
South Carolina Livestock Council,
Greenwood, S. C.

OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLA”
February 4,1958.
Congressman W. J. BRYAN DORN,
House Ofﬁce Building,
Washington, D. C.. '

We respectfully, but urgently, solicit you
to move adoption Of your bill, H. R. 5820, as
a substitute for H. R. 8308. H. R. 8308 would
curtail slaughter of livestock in many plants.

- JACK R. HOUSER,
Executive Secretary, Oklahoma Cat-
tlemen’s Association.

FEBRUARY 3, 1958.
We urge your support of the Dorn bill,
H. R. 5820, which will be offered as a sub-
stitute for the Poage bill, H. R. 8308, on the
House ﬂoor. We favor humane slaughter
and are. working to bring. this about as rap-
idly as humane methods are developed that
are practicable and within the financial
reach of small packers. The Dorn bill calling
for study and research on this important
issue has support of livestock and farm or—
ganizations and United States Department of
Agriculture. Compulsory legislation would
be a mistake at this time. The Poage bill
should be defeated. '
‘ E. F. FORBES,
President, Western States Meat
Packers Association, Inc.

RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE NATIONAL WOOL
GROWERS ASSOCIATION ON JANUARY 23 AT
THEIR NATIONAL CONVENTION IN PHOENIX,
ARIz.

We are opposed to any impractical and un-
economic legislation regarding methods of
slaughtering lambs. We commend the prin-
ciples involved in Senate bill 1213, asking
for a study of humane slaughtering methods.

NATIONAL WOOL GROWERS ASSOCIATION.

Headquarters, Salt Lake City.

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE

AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION,
Washington, D. C., February 4,1958.
Hon. W. J. BRYAN DORN,
United States House of Representatives,
Washington, D. C.

DEAR CONGRESSMAN DORN: Attached is a
copy of a letter expressing the views of the
American Farm Bureau Federation on hu-
mane slaughter legislation. This letter was
sent in April 1957 to Congressman POAGE at
the time the Subcommittee on Livestock and
Feed Grains of the House Agriculture Com-
mittee was holding hearings on this matter.

The attitude of the American Farm Bureau
Federation on humane slaughter legislation
has not changed since that time.

Sincerely yours, .
' JOHN C. DA'I'I‘,
Assistant Legislative Director.

AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION,
Washington, D. C., Aprill, 1957.
Hon. W. R. POAGE,

Chairman, Livestock and Feed Grain
Subcommittee, House AgriCulture
Committee, United States‘House of
Representatives, Washington, D. C.

, DEAR CONGRESSMAN POAGE: On behalf of the
American Farm Bureau Federation we would
like to express our views with regard to bills
requiring the compulsory application of so-
called humane methods in the slaughter Of
livestock and poultry. Naturally, as a repre-
sentative of livestock producers, we have a
tremendous interest in this matter.

With the membership in Farm Bureau at

about 1 ,600, 000 I would judge that a very]

large majority Of this membership is actively
engaged in producing, feeding and marketing
livestock, dairy, and poultry. From a
completely practical point of view we be-
lieve the humane handling of livestock and
poultry at all levels is perhaps of greater
interest and concern to us than to any other
group. Farmers and ranchers usually give
the utmost care to their livestock.

In considering this legislation it. is neces-
sary for us to view compulsory legislation in
this ﬁeld in light of its possible economic
impact on livestock producers. It seems to
us that the meatpackers, the humanitarians,
th scientists, and others cannot yet agree

- on the most practical or even the most hu-

mane method for slaughtering livestock. In
light of the controversy around this issue
it seems to us that compulsory legislation at
this time would be very premature and not
in the best interest of either the producers
of livestock or the consumer. ,

We would recommend that an advisory
group under the direction of the Secretary
of Agriculture be established to give con-
certed study to this problem. It is our be-
lief that a great deal more could be achieved
toward a; solution to this problem on a volun-
tary basis than if compulsory legislation is
passed. The success 'of any program Of this
kind is largely dependent on the willingness
of those dealing with the matter to cooperate.

In other words, we strongly believe that
the greatest progress toward the solution of
this problem will come about through the
development of voluntary programs, based
on factual information made possible
through cooperative efforts of all segments
of the livestock, poultry, and meat industry,
and those interested in the humane handling
of livestock and poultry at all'levels of pro-
duction and processing.

We respectfully request that this letter be
made a part of the record of hearings.

Sincerely yours,
~ JOHN C. LYNN,
Legislative Director.

February 1,

DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE,
Washington, D. C., February 4, 1858.
Hon. WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN DORN,
House of Representatives.

DEAR CONGRESSMAN DORN: This is in reply
to your request of February 3, for a report
on H. R. 8308, a bill to establish the use of
humane methods of slaughter of livestock as
a policy of the United States, and for other
purposes.

The Department emphatically favors hu-
mane slaughter of livestock by any method
that is found to be practicable and work-
able. However, we Oppose the enactment of
H. R. 8308, on the basis that it would tend
to cause confusion. We believe that the end
result could best be obtained through scien—
tiﬁc research and development and coopera-
tion of the public, producers, farm organiza-
tions, industrial groups, and humane asso-
ciations.

Our opposition to the enactment of H. R.
8308 is based on the following facts.

Even the stunning methods advocated by
the humane organizations would not be in
conformity with the stated public policy, be-
cause the methods have been known to fail
to stun eaCh and every. animal with a single
blow.

Slaughtering in connection with the prac-
tices of a religious faith is declared to be
humane, but it is not clear whether the
handling of livestock in connection with
such slaughtering, must conform with the
stated public policy—this would require all
such livestock to be rendered insensible prior
to slaughter, contrary to most religious laws.

There are approximately 3,000-livestock
slaughterers, of which 500 are eligible to sell
meat to Federal agencies. The procurement
provisions would apply- only to the owners
of plants which actually contract to sell to
such agencies. Furthermore, the bill does

not apply to slaughterers of poultry.

Even though there is a lack of authorita-
tive scientiﬁc information on the subject of
humane slaughter Of each species of livestock
and the handling in connection therewith,
the Secretary is compelled without waiting
for the research and study provided in the
bill, to designate methods which are or are
not in conformity with the stated public
policy.

The diﬂiculties of compliance, due to its
stringent and ambiguous terms, would great-
ly restrict the competitive bidding on Fed-
eral meat contracts and inevitably result in
marked increase in cost to the Government,
as well as, hamper supplies and disrupt the
marketing of livestock.

Programs designated to stabilize the live-
stock market by purchasing of surplus meats
would be jeopardized. The programs must
be conducted on short notice and during
brief periods when prices to producers are
seriously depressed and livestock numbers
are especially high. ,

The bill might cause such confusion as to
impede progress on the part of slaughterers,
researchers, local jurisdictions, and humane
associations in the ﬁeld of humane handling
and slaughtering of livestock. -

In lieu of H. R. 8308, we would again rec-
ommend that the Congress consider the
merits of H. R. 5820.’ This bill would pro-
vide an orderly approach to the objective of
humane slaughter and would, in addition,
provide for a coordinated national effort to
improve the humane handling and transport
of food animals which involve repeated han-
dling of these animals during the marketing
process from farm to slaughter.

The Bureau of the Budget advises that
there is no objection to the submission of
this report.

Sincerely yours, ,
TRUE D. MORSE,
. Acting Secretary.

 




1958

Mr. Chairman, this legislation is dan-
gerous legislation. In section 2 of the
bill there is language such as—by a single
blow of the hammer, or a gunshot; and
it goes On to add electrical and chemical
devices.

My bill provides for the appointment

of a committee of eight people in addi-~

tion to a representative of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture. This committee is
,to meet with the humane societies. It
,is to be composed of representatives of
the public, the meat producers and the
meatpackers, and the Department of
Agriculture, to determine what is the
, most humane method to dispatch live-
stock in America. And they are to report
back to this Congress within 2 years so
that we may proceed without all of this
confusion.

Mr. Chan man, let me call your atten-
tion to section 3 of the bill, Which, as the
gentleman from New York has pointed
out, calls for criminal punishment under
title 18 of the United States Code. Let
me point out this, also in that section—-
and I hope every single Member here
1 before he votes on this bill will read sec—.
tion 3—that no meatpacker can sell meat
to the Government of the United States,
under any of its procurement programs——

Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps,‘

' school lunch program, they did not say
the school lunch program, but it men-
tio‘ns price supports and I am wondering,
I will say to the chairman of the Com-.
mittee on Agriculture, if this bill does
not go much further aﬁeld than has been
represented here today.

Here is another strange aspect of this '

bill. It sets forth the policy of this Con-
gress in deﬁning humane slaughter. The
bill'makes it unlawful to slaughter ani-
mals except in certain ways. Then it
goes on to say the producers and the
packers and the consumers will all bene-
fit by the passage of this bill. That is

under the policy section. Then loand.

behold, in section 4 of the bill it provides
for a committee to study and to deter—
mine what is the most'humane method.
The bill deﬁnes humane slaughter at the
same time setting up a committee to
study the most humane methods. No
wonder the Secretary of Agriculture is
so bitterly opposed to this type of legis-
lation.

Let me say right here that some years
ago Dr. Galloway of the Congressional
Library,~who is not afﬁliated with any
political party, who is a statistician, said
that 90 percent of all the laws, rules,
and regulations with the full force and
intent of the law are not written by the
4 Coongress, but by the departments and

agencies and bureaus of the Federal '

Government. How refreshing it is to

see one department of the Federal Gov--

ernment that has the courage to come
here and say that, “We do not want any
more power over the great meat and
livestock industry of this country.”

The Department of Agriculture in-
forms me that this Poage bill cannot be
properly enforced. It is vague and am-
biguous. It will embarrass and curtail
Federal meat-purchasing activities. It
will restrict the competitive bidding on
Federal meat contracts and result in
cost to the taxpayers as well as hamper

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE

supplies. This bill could result in lower
prices to farmers for livestock by re-
stricting the Defense Department’s buy-
ing program.

The Poage bill would overrule local,
State, national humane organizations

and livestock groups which might differ "

with the Secretary of Agriculture on his
methods of slaughter. This bill will
hurt the little packer struggling to com-
pete in a highly competitive ﬁeld.

Mr. Chairman, I am glad to see one
department of the Federal Government
that does not want this enormous power
to regulate, intimidate, and harass one
of the greatest industries in the world.
It is just incidental that the Secretary
of Agriculture happens to be a member
of the party on my left. I congratulate
Mr. Benson for opposing this confusing
legislation.

Mr. COOLEY. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield?

Mr. DORN of South Carolina. I will
be delighted to yield to thedistinguished
chairman of the committee.

Mr. COOLEY; It is rather refreshing

to hear the gentleman’s comments con—-

cerning Mr. Benson. It is the ﬁrst time
I have known the gentleman had such
great conﬁdence in the Secretary.

What I wanted to ask the gentleman
was this: In section 5 we authorize the
Secretary to establish an advisory com-
mittee composed of 12 members. What
authority does the gentleman proposeﬂto
give'his 9-man committee that is not
given to the 12-man committee provided
for in'this bill?

Mr. DORN of South Carolina.
exactly the point.
man brought it up. The bill that came
out of his committee in the policy section
and in sections 2 and 3 provides for all of
this to be compulsory. Then you go
ahead in’the same bill, not knowing what
humane slaughter is all about, and pro-
vide for research and a committee to
study what is humane slaughter.

Mr. COOLEY. Is it not rather strange
that the gentleman should come here and
present a bill, then object to its being
read and ask to waive the reading of the
bill, and then ask the House to reverse
the Committee on Agriculture and take
the gentleman’s leadership and adopt a
bill they have not even heard read?

Mr DORN of South Cai olina. All the
bill provides fo1

Mr. COOLEY. I wish the gentleman
would tell us what it provides.

Mr. DORN of South Carelina. A com-
mittee of eight, representing the humane
societies, the producers, packers, and
scientists.

Mr. COOLEY. To do what? To study
this for 2 long years?

Mr. DORN. of South Carolina. , To
study what is the most humane method
of slaughter.

Mr. COOLEY. To study for 2 yeais
and report back?

Mr. DORN of South Carolina. And
report back to this House so we can leg-

That is

' islate intelligently. No two packers in

this country seem to agree on what is the
most humane method. Let us have a
scientiﬁc study of the various methods
and report to the country. This is exact-
ly what my bill provides for. We should

' to reprieve our ﬂocks and herds.
, let us also confess, here and now, to

I am glad the gentle- 1

1443

not legislate blindly. I am for humane
slaughter, but let us ﬁrst determine what
is humane slaughter.

Let me say in reference to Mr. Benson,
the Secretary of Agriculture, that I did
not call his name, but I will say this, and
I repeat, it is refreshing to me, and I do
not care what political party he belongs
to, to see one man in this Government
who is anxious to get the Government
out of business in this country. 7

I am a farmer. No man, more than a
farmer, can have greater concern for the
welfare of the animals he, raises on his
land. Cruelty to animals is abhorrent
to the good farmer, not only because it is
morally wrong, but because it is waste-'-
ful—it is just not good husbandry.
There is no proﬁt to be had from animals
that have been allowed to languish and
suffer from sickness, or have been in-
jured by wanton brutality. But the fate
of the domestic animal, the whole reason
for its existence, is to provide food for ‘
man—asthe Good Book says in Genesis,
chapter 9, verse 3: “Every moving thing .
that liveth shall be meat for you”—and
no matter'how a farmer’s heart may be

‘touched, his herds and ﬂocks must in

the end go to the slaughter pen if ‘the‘
Nation is to be fed.

There is no way,'let usconfess it--
unless we are all to become vegetarians—-
Nor,

bring death to any animal that can be
considered pleasant. The slaughter-
house can never be a pretty place.

The best we can hope to achieve is to
'make the slaughter of animals as hu-
mane as possible, and there is not one
farmer, one rancher; one meatpacker, or
meat consumer who would not support
legislation to that end. - To vote' against
it would be to vote for the sin of cruelty.

But enormous problems are involved—-
problems that have beset the entire meat
industry for many years—and they are
net to be solved by any law that does not,
take account of them. In fact, a law
that ignores them and seeks to impose
standards it cannot enforce, may well set
back the cause of humane slaughtering
rather than encourage it. Moreover, it
could produce such chaos in the meat
industry that this Nation, one of the
largest meat—eating countries in the
world, could in weeks be reduced to meat
rations, worse than any in the leanest
time of World War II—shades of OPA
and meat lines at butcher shops. I am
sure that the distinguished majority
leader, the gentleman from Massachu-
setts, will recall the political debacle of 7
1946 that beset our party Caused by meat
shortages—caused by disruption of this
vast and complicated ”industry.

Such a law, in my View, is that pro-
posed by the Poage bill—H. R. 8308—now
before you. I do not quarrel with its .
preamble, which requires the Secretary
of Agriculture to conduct, assist, and fos—
ter the necessary research and experi-
ments to develop methods for the slaugh—
ter of livestock which are both humane
and practical.

But the Poage bill goes further than
this to enter—with all those, good in-
tentions which pave so many roads to

 




1444

folly—the realms of unreality and even,
if I may say, of ,that bureaucratic tyr-
anny which was never a substitute for
sane legislation, but merely a convenient
way for shelving the. responsibility for
constructive thought in favor oﬂ satisfy-
ing an ill-informed emotional clamor.

For the bill would require the Secre-
tary, at an early date and continuously
thereafter, to give the ofﬁcial sanction
of his ofﬁce to certain methods which he
would approve and designate.- This
would have two, and to my mind, quite
disastrous effects, as well as being a
denial of the democratic and free enter-
prise system which is the very sinew of
this country’s strength and progress.

First it would completely overrule,

without appeal, the local, State, and na-
tional humane organizations and live-
stock groups, which might differ, with
excellent cause and reason, from the
Secretary of Agriculture’s ﬁat. Further
I ask, is there now unanimity of opinion
between all humane societies on how
is the most humane method to dispose
of unwanted and unloved kittens and
puppies.
. Second, it would deny all packers and
wholesalers of meat the privilege of sell-
ing to any agency of the Federal Govern-
m-,ent unless the vendors were com-
pletely prepared to empIOy the Secre-
tary’s chosen methods throughout their
entire organizations.

What would be the immediate result
if the Poage bill was made effective this
very day? Not a single United States
soldier, sailor or airman, serving at home
or overseas, would get another ounce of

meat; nor would there be any meat in
the school lunches provided with Federal
.aid for our children.

Why? Because there is not a single
packer or wholesaler, great or small, who
could meet the requirements set out in
the bill—although it is estimated that
fully 50 percent of the cattle now being
slaughtered in this country are rendered
insensible , by mechanical stunning
methods; already approved and in fact
installed on the recommendation of the
Nation’s leading humane societies and
the American Meat Institute. For the
bill requires that each and every animal
slaughtered must ﬁrst be stunned by a
single blow.

This, Mr. Chairman, with the best will
in the wbrld, and the latest methods of
humane slaughtering so far devised, is
impossible to guarantee.

And I would like to point out here that
these latest methods of humane slaugh-
tering exist for the most part only on the
premises of the larger packers. It still
remains for‘ the large number of small
packers to adopt the new methods. Con-
siderable costs are involved which a small
business might at ﬁrst ﬁnd difficult to
‘ meet, but there is every indication that
the small packers are following suit-as
quickly as they can and are more likely
to be deterred than encouraged by leg-
islation. .

We are talking about the humane
slaughter of all meat animals. How-
ever, the law, as the bill stands, would
apply to only about 500 of the more than
3,000 livestock slaughterers in this coun-
try. It could apply to none of the poul-

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —-— HOUSE

try sl‘aughterers, since the sole methods
of enforcement is through denial of op-
portunity to sell meat from federally in-
spected packing plants to the Federal
Government.

Even assuming that the law’s one-blow
requirement could be met, it would al-
most certainly be met by the big pack-
ers ﬁrst and consider what a restriction
this would impose upon competitive bid-
ding for Federal contracts. It requires
little or no imagination to forecast at
once not only a serious falling off of
supplies, but as a result of that scarcity,
a marked increase in price to the Fed-
eral Government—which is already hav-
ing a hard enough time ﬁnding money
for defense. Again, the Department of
Agriculture itself would be seriously em-
barrassed to stabilize the livestock mar-
ket purchasing of surplus meats. This
program, as you know, must be conducted
on short notice and during very brief
periods when prices to producers are
seriously depressed and livestock num-
bers especially high. It is a delicate
buisness at the best of times. It would
become doubly delicate if livestock prices
were to be further artiﬁcially depressed
by a slowdown in slaughtering.

The point has been made that this is
really 'a cheap law because, as a result
of its method of enforcement, the‘only
cost to the Fedreal Government would
be for research and experiment in hu-
mane slaughtering methods, for evalua-
tion and determination of methods, and
for identiﬁcation of carcasses from
plants that use designated methods. All
this has been set at a mere $200,000
which would include the payroll for about
20 people. ,

But nowhere do I ﬁnd a single men-
tion of what is likely to be the biggest
cost of all: the cost to Federal purchas-
ing agencies toassure themselves that

the law has been complied with and to‘
(take action in the event of noncom-

pliance. And of course, no one can es-
timate the countless millions that will
be lost both to the Federal Government

and to the meat industry and our hard-

pressed farmers by the inevitable con-
fusion which I have outlined, and from
which I see no possible way of escape.

Now, Mr. Chairman, that I have—as
I trust—given cause for second thoughts
about what I sincerely believe is a well
meant but dangerous bill, I would seek
your indulgence to examine more closely
the rights and wrongs of humane
slaughtering. There are a good many
rights and a good many wrongs, and
most of the wrongs are in the emotional
approach to a problem, which if the Na-
tion is to be fed meat, must be tackled
from knowledge and not from emo-
tionalism.

I have been impressed, deeply im-
p1 essed, by the efforts made by the De—
partment of Agriculture, to inform all
those interested in humane slaughter of
the difﬁculties to be overcome, and I am
convinced all concerned with the han—
dling of animals should study very care-
fully the plan for accomplishing its ob-
jective which the Department of Agri-

culture, the American meat industry and

the American Humane Association has
many times presented. We must not lose

February .4

sight of the fact that the Department
and these agencies, in the democratic
process, have not only deﬁned the prob-
lem but also sought diligently for a solu-
tion. That they have not yet succeeded
in ﬁnding one that can immediately be
put into operation in every slaughter-
house in the land is not for lack of trying.
I have, as you know, Mr. Chairman,
myself proposed alternative legislation
which has complete support of the De-
partment of Agriculture, and further-'
more—as I am sure I have little need to
remind you—that Department is being
administered by a gentleman whose poli-
tics are very different from my own. I
consider this a certain measure of its
merit. My bill, H. R. 5820, provides for
further study of humane slaughter under
the guidance of the Department and also
provides for a time limit for reporting to
Congress and assuming responsibility for
those humane methods of slaughter
which it is prepared to designate and sup-
port against the inevitable conﬁict of
interest that must come on judicial re—
view. '

My bill, I maintain, is as far as this
House may honestly go in this matter
at this time. It has the considered sup-
port of the American Farm Bureau Fed-
eration, the American National Cattle-
men’s Association, the National Wool
Growers’ Association, and many other
State and national farm organizations.
We are concerned with animals—and
rightly so. But our primary concern, Mr.
Chairman, is the well being of the men,
women, and ‘children of this Nation.

The CHAIRMAN. The time of the
gentleman frOm South Carolin-a has ex—
pired. ,

(By unanimous consent, Mr. DORN of
South Carolina was allowed to proceed
for 2 additional minutes.)

Mr. JOHANSEN. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield?

Mr. DORN of South Carolina. .I will
be delighted to yield to the gentleman
from Michigan. >

Mr. J OHANSEN. I wonder if thegen-
tleman can tell me the present, prevalent
method of slaughtering hogs.

Mr. DORN of South Carolina. I will
refer that question to the distinguished
gentleman from Texas [Mr. POAGEJ.‘ He
mentiOned it a moment ago.

Mr. POAGE. The gentleman is ask-
ing what the present method of slaug ht-
ering hogs is?

Mr. JOHANSEN. Yes.

Mr. POAGE. The present method is to
use the wheel, by which a live animal is
shaCkled to a steel chain, a revolving
chain about 12 or 15 feet high. He is_
pulled up there, often breaking a leg,
pulling the bone out of the socket.

Mr. JOHANSEN. That is not the
question.

Mr. POAGE I would like to give the
gentleman the whole of the method, if he
wants the method.

Mr. JOHANSEN. May I ask the
further question, if this bill is enacted
into law what will become the com-
pulsory method of slaughtering?

Mr. POAGE. The Secretary of Agri-
culture will be permitted to require any
humane method of slaughtering,

 




1958

Mr. JOHANSEN. But speciﬁcally,
when and how will the slaughterers know
the proper method?

Mr.,POAGE. They willknow twofold:
First, the bill itself sets out two methods
which are hereby deﬁned to be humane.
Those are the' two that are rewritten by
the amendments we just adopted. That
is the instantaneous death, or it is the
ritualistic slaughtering method. Or he
will know by the Secretary of Agricul—
ture’s permitting some other method.
That is exactly what section 5 provides.
We know we do not have all knowledge
today, and as we learn more about these
things we may very well ﬁnd that an
electric method is a practical and a hu-
mane method; and the Secretary can so
promulgate.

Mrs. GRIFFITHS. Mr. Chairman, I
move to strike out the last word.

Mr. Chairman, I oppose the gentle-
man’s amendment and support the bill
as written by the committee.

WHY COMPULSORY HUMANE SLAUGHTER

' LEGISLATION IS NEEDED '
, Over 30 years ago there was a strong
movement throughout the civilized na-
tions of the world for the institution of
humane methods of slaughter. As a re-
sult of this movement the Netherlands,
Norway, Scotland,.Ireland, England, and
parts of France, Germany, and Austria
and other foreign nations enacted com-
pulsory humane-slaughter legislation.
In the United States the meatpacking
industry agreed to voluntarily institute
humane methods of slaughter. In 1929

the American Meat Institute, the trade,
. research, and educational association of

the meatpacking industry set up a
special committee to develop improved
methods of slaughter which would ﬁrst,
be considered more humane than present
practice; second, be practical and eco-
nomical in regular plan operations.
The efforts of the industry as a whole
throughout the years indicate little or
no real effort to solve the problems of
developing improved methods of humane
slaughter. Only in isolated plants has
real progress or substantial results been
achieved.
, It appears obvious that the meat-
packing industry has not chosen to pro-
ceed aggressively and conscientiously
to voluntarily institute humane methods

of slaughter and having had over 25.

years in which; to do so I believe one can
assume that they never will institute
such methods voluntarily.

Legislation in this area is certainly
long overdue. Daily, we attempt to lead
nations in matters of foreign affairs,
often emphasizing and stressing the fact
that we are a nation guided by humane
principles. Such reasoning must appear
hollow to people who long ago recognized
the need for compulsory humane-
slaughter legislation and did something
about it.

ECONOMIC FACTORS

First. Reduction in accident rate: Be-
sides the humaneness of the thing, a
compelling reason for modernizing
slaughtering methods is the fact that
accidents would be drastically reduced.
The various humane methods-carbon

NO.18—-—-——-11

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE

dioxide or other gas, the captive bolt
pistol and others would materially re-
duce the hazards present in our plants.

The latest ﬁgures of the Department
of Labor show that accidents occur at
almost double the rate in slaughter-
houses as for all industrial activity com-
bine. The average accident rate for all
manufacturing in 1955 was 12.1 per mil-
lion man-hours worked. For slaughter-
houses the rate was 18.9 per million
man-hou_r§worked.

Preliminary ﬁgures from the Depart-
ment for 1956 show a signiﬁcant increase
in the accident rate in slaughterhouses.
For 1956 the accident rate jumped to
19.1—ﬁrst 9 months—per million hours
while the average for manufacturing was
12.1—ﬁrst 9 months.

Here is a table setting fo1th these sta-.

tistics f01 quick reference:
Accident rates per million man-hours

 

Slaughter-
houses
(includes
slaughtering
and drcssi 11g
only, not
processing)

~ General
manufac-
turing

 

 

 

 

1 Estimates by Department of Labor 1'01 1st 9 months
of 1956.

These safety ﬁgures should not be
construed as an adverse reﬂection on the
industry or labor unions involved. Both
labor and management are credited with
making a continuous strong effort to re-
duCe accidents but it should be empha-
sized that present methods of slaughter
are hazardous and I submit the intro-
duction of humane methods—whereby
immobile, unconscious animals are sub-
stituted for kicking, screaming animals—-
would materially contribute to a reduc«
tion in packinghouse accidents. Lost
manhours, injury,-and medical expenses
are of beneﬁt to none. Humane slaugh-

tering methods can 1educe this unnecesf

sary economic loss.

Second. Reduction in bruised and
damaged meat: Apart from the compel-
ling considerations to accord humane
treatment to the animals involved, the
use of humane techniques in slaughter—

ing could have important and beneﬁcial”

economic consequences for the meat-
packing industry. Perhaps the most im-
portant would be the reduction in
bruised and damaged meat It is pres-
ently estimated that as much as $50 mil-
lion worth of meat is rendered unsalable
annually because» of damage coincident
with the slaughtering process. This loss
could be reduced substantially if humane
methods were employed. An uncon-
scious animal is easy to work with, pre-
sents no problem in the subsequent kill-
ing process, and thus .the prospect of
loss in dressing is reduced to an impor-
tant degree. Secondly, it should be noted
that meatpacking companies would be
entitled to the generous depreciation rate
of the Internal Revenue Code in charging
off the cost oflnew installations neces-
sary to accomplish humane slaughtering.

1445

Under the 1954 Revenue Act this de-
preciation can be accomplished at twice
the rate previously allowed. ’~

Enactment of this legislation requiring
new installations would not place the
packing. industry in any less favorable
position than other industries which are
subject to legislation and regulation. All
public carriers, for example, are obliged
to maintain safety devices called for in
law. These 00sts are a part of doing
business.

The same circumstances would obtain ,
for the packing industry under the pro-
posed legislation. Furthermore the leg-
islation gives the industry a voice in the
ﬁnal determination of the new methods
to be used. There would be no arbitrary
decision involved or enforced.

HUMANE SLAUGHTERING METHODS AND COSTS

. One of the most frequently voiced ob‘-

jections to" this legislation is the state-,-
ment that advocates of humane methods
do not agree on a speciﬁc technique to
be used. This is certainly not a valid
argument. The legislation would estab—
lish in law the fact that a humane’system
of . slaughtering shall be practiced in
those humane slaughtering plants whose
products move in interstate commerce.
The legislation reserves to the industry
and the Secretary of Agriculture the
right to determine the best humane
method to be employed. Different ani-
mals present different slaughtering prob-
lems, and it is proper that the law allow '
ﬂexibility to meet every need.

While it is difﬁcult to estimate the
total cost of converting the packing in-
dustry to humane methods, some useful
data is available.

The captive bolt pistol and the new
Remington stunning instrument cost less
than $200. The electric stunning equip-.-
ment is relatively inexpensive.

But perhaps the most signiﬁcant ad-
vance in humane slaughtering in this
country was the perfection of an immo-
bilizing unit for hogs which is now in
operation at the Austin (Minn) plant of
the George A. Hormel Co. This method
using ca1bon monoxide gas to render the
hog unconscious before sticking was pio- .
neered by Hormel enginee1s and has been
in successful operation 3 years on a com-
mercial scale.

Mr. L. W. Murphy of the Hormel Co.
service division Spoke before the Amel-
ican Meat Institute in 1952 and pointed.
out that the above method has the com-
plete approval of the Department of
Agriculture and he made these other sig-
niﬁcant observations:

We are sure the method can be applied to
other packinghouse livestock. * * * the hog
was presented to the sticker so that he could
operate at arm’s length, accurately, safely,
unhurried, and with cleanliness to himself.

Mr. Murphy pointed out with, empha-
sis that the Hormel Company has ef-
fected substantial savings in operating
costs and has brought about improved
working conditions. Mr. Murphy, con-
eludes:

They alone (these savings) more than com-
pensate us the cost of our years of research.

Incidentally, it might be noted that
this company has reaped immeasurable

 




2.

pars «14 ":‘1' r N 1;; "I “5‘“
""1 (gsﬁrttreﬁi-déﬁéi-m 1'3 » < 5??

~c
emit:

v...‘ A'.‘ . ”‘5“! '3',“
Pr?- "$33,157:? 23.-3:5 6:“
"MO“ 1 3.5:; ,w.

1446

beneﬁts in good will because of this fer-
ward step.

This installation is concrete proof that -

humane methods can be combined suc-
cessfully with practical business consid-s
erations. Several other smaller packing
concerns have also adopted humane
methods in recent years. These instal-
lations would seem to demolish the con‘—
tention that it cannot be done.

The idea of protecting our animals
from unnecessary pain and suﬁering is
certainly not new and unique. It is, in-
deed, interesting to note that man at
one time‘ sought and received statutory
protection for his animals before the
same protection was given to human
beings. In 1866 the ﬁrst anticruelty leg-
islation was passed in the United States.
This legislation made cruelty to ani-
mals—such as the man beating his horse
on the street—punishable by' ﬁne and
imprisonment. At this time there were
no statutorylaws to prevent cruelty to
children. Parents and guardians in the
United States had the legal right, under
the common law, to treat their children
as they saw ﬁt. The only deterrent to
vicious and cruel treatment of children

was a moral obligation not to do so.
The Society for the Prevention of---
Cruelty to Animals was constantly be--

sieged with cases of cruel treatment to
children ‘but the laws at the time pro-
vided no remedy for such actions. Then
one day the case of Mary Ellen was
brought to the attention of Henry Bergh,
a leader. in the anticruelty movement.
This little girl was daily the 'victim of
viciously cruel treatment by her guard-
ians. They kept her chained to a bed-
post, dressed only in a thin and dirty
chemise, unchained her only to do house-
work, and punished her regularly with a
big leather whip and with ﬁerce prods
of scissors. Mr. Bergh could stand it no
longer.

He went to the State legislature and
got the 1866 act—an act better to pre—
vent cruelty to animals, amended—so
that in 1874 it prohibited acts of cruelty
to “every living creature”——and in No-

vember of 1874 the courts declared this ‘

to include children and thereby the Mary
Ellens were given statutory protection
against cruel and inhumane treatment.
Soon speciﬁc legislation to prevent
cruelty tochildren was enacted, and a
society to prevent cruelty to children
established.

In closing let me say that progress in
any ﬁeld has not come easily or will-
ingly on the part of those persons,
groups, or business interests affected.

But when it can be demonstrated—as,

indeed the weight of evidence does in
humane slaughtering—that a beneﬁcial
result will be obtained for all concerned,
we cannot, in good conscience, delay this
legislation any longer.

It is my earnest hope that humane
slaughter legislation will be acted upon

“favorably during this session of Con-

gress. I am certain that you will ﬁnd
an overwhelming majority of our people

‘ in agreement.

(Mrs. GRIFFITHS asked and was given

permission to revise and extend her

remarks.)

Mr. HARRISON of Nebraska. Mr.

Chairman, I move to strike out the last

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD— HOUSE

word and rise in support of the amend-
ment.

Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask the
gentleman from South Carolina if the
number of his bill isnot H. R. 5820?

Mr. DORN of South Carolina. Yes,
the number is H. R. 5820; and if the gen-
tleman will yield for just a moment, I
want to point out I neglected to say since
most of my time was taken up that a

. similar bill passed the other body unani-

mously in 1956 on July 23. ""J'If we had
gone ahead and acted on that bill, it
would have been in the interest of the
humane societies of this country and
something could be done about it and
some research would have uncovered the
most humane way to slaughter livestock
in this country.

Mr. HARRISON of Nebraska.
the gentleman. I want to associate my-
self with the gentleman from South Car-
olina [Mr. DORN] who is proposing the
bill, H. R. 5820, on the basis that the
Commission set up by that bill will come
back to the House of Representatives and
bring its conclusions to the House of
Representatives rather than bring the
conclusion of the Commission, as pro-
vided in the Poage bill, to the Secretary
of Agriculture.
said about humane methods of slaughter-
ing. I think each and every one of us
here today is in favor of some method of

humane slaughtering of our animals. I '

do not think there has been enough re—
search as of this time to determine what
is humane and what is not humane. It
has been said that the‘ so-called bolt
method of slaughtering or stunning of
beef animals is humane and that it is
being used. I do not know whether it is
or it is not humane. I do not think
there has been enough research on this
particular method of stunning the ani-
mal to determine whether it is or it is
not. I think that the one-shot method
so to speak is supposed to be humane.
What happens to the animal when he is
not insensitized by the one shot? Is he
to be taken to one side and not slaugh-
tered at all or should he be shot again?
I think that is one of the things that we
must determine here. What is a. hu—
mane method of slaughtering hogs? I
think. it was very well described here by
the gentleman from Texas [Mr. POAGE]
as to the method that is used today, the
conventional method. However, there
are other methods and one of them which
is used in my particular district by the
Hormel Packing Co. is that of the carbon
dioxide gas which immobilizes the pig for
some 40 or 50 seconds, and when the pig
would have gained consciousness, he has
been bled to death.

I think anyone of us who would watch
that particular method would say that
it is humane where the hogs are driven
into a particular pen and are put on an
endless belt and they go into a gas vat
and when they come out, to all intents
and purposes and from anything that
you can determine by looking at the
hog, it seems as if it is humane. I do
not. think there is anyone here who
knows, whether or not that pig goes
through any agony at all when it is in
the gas chamber. I think those things
need to be determined. I think they
have not been determined yet. I think

I thank":

A great deal has been-

Q

Fe b'ruary 4

this electrical method that has been
talked about is another method that we
do not know enough about with respect
to the insensitizing of any of the animals.

Mr. COOLEY. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield?

Mr. HARRISON ofl'Nebraska.‘ I yield
to my distinguished chairman.

Mr. COOLEY. I want to ask the
gentleman if he would not tell the House
something about the experience of the
Hermel Co., and if _Horrnel did not
tell the gentleman in my’ presence
that it was an economical operation and
that it was humane and just as humane
as it could be made. ‘

Mr. HARRISON of Nebraska. I think
the chairman is exactly correct. They
said it was more economical and from
their standpoint, it was humane. But I
am not so sure that everyone would agree
that the method is humane until some
research is completed to determine the,
feeling of the hog within'the gas cham-
ber. ‘ ‘ '

There has not been enough research
on this particular aspect in order to
determine whether it is or is not humane.
So I want to associate myself with the
gentleman from South Carolina [Mr.
DORN], that we should set up this par-
ticular commission to study this matter
for 2 or 3 years and then come back
and make recommendations with respect
to what is or is not humane.

The CHAIRMAN. The time of the
gentleman from Nebraska has expired.

(By unanimous consent, Mr. HARRISON

. of Nebraska? was granted 2 additional

minutes.)

Mr. DORN of South Carolina. Will
the gentleman yield? "

Mr. HARRISON of Nebraska. I yield.

Mr. DORN of South Carolina. I would
like to state to my friend that he is mak-
ing a great contribution. This matter
shouldbe thoroughly studied before we
pass compulsory legislation.

The Department of Agriculture is bit-
terly opposed to this type of bill. N 0 one
can say what effect the methods outlined
in this bill will have upon Brahma cattle,
which is a growing industry all over Flor-
ida and the South. Everyone knows they
are twice as tough as the ordinary cattle
in this country, and an entirely new
method might have to be used or those

‘farmers would be forced to take lower

prices for that type of cattle.

Mr. HARRISON of Nebraska. I thank
the gentleman. In a great.many in-
stances it would be harmful to a great
many of the slaughtering houses in the '
United States. Not the Big Five or the
Big Six, because they can put in these

particular methods, unless they are using

some of these methods that have been
described, they cannot sell to the Govern-
ment. ,That would work a hardship on a.
great many slaughtering houses at this
time who were not able because of ﬁ-
nances to meet the standards and would
create a monopoly from the standpoint
of the Big Six.

Mr. JOHANSEN. Mr. Chairman, ‘will
the gentleman yield?

Mr. HARRISON of Nebraska. I yield.
. Mr. JOHANSEN. Is it not possible
under this bill that the Department could
issue an order requiring a completely dif—A

 




1958

ferent method, at great expense to the
packers?

Mr. HARRISON of Nebraska. They
might adopt a method that might not be
acceptable to the House of Representa-
tives at all.

Mr. JOHANSEN. But under the orig-
inal bill—under the Poage bill?

Mr. HARRISON of Nebraska.
my understanding.

The CHAIRMAN. The time of the
gentleman from Nebraska has again ex-
pired.

Mr DAWSON of Utah. Mr. Chairman,
I rise in opposition to the amendment.
I shall not take the 5 minutes, but I
think we should understand what we are
doing.

The purpose of this amendment is to
refer the matter back to the Department
of Agriculture for further study. That
is all it provides. Of course, they al-
ready have the power to study. They
sent Mr. Miller over to Europe and he
made an investigation, and he'came back
and they made a report, and they have
been studying for years and years. If
you will study the report of the De-
partment of Agriculture, you will ﬁnd
they are not very bitterly opposed to this
bill. They state they are in accord with
its objectives, but they feel they should
be given more time to study the matter.
They have had year after year to study
it. I feel. the time has arrived for action.
I hope in voting on this amendment we
will keep in mind that we are either
voting for the bill or against it, be-
cause if this amendment is agreed to it
simply means we are giving a green light
to certain packers to continue their in-
humane practice in the hopes that de-
lay will occur and nothing will be done.
So I hop-e this amendment will be re-
jected.

Mr. POAGE. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield. 9

M1. DAWSON of Utah. Iyield.

Mr. POAGE. Is it not a fact that
the remarks of the author of the amend-
ment clearly showed that it was intended
to completely kill the bill? He did not
have the amendment read. He simply
said, “Here is an amendment,” and he
made a speech in which .he said that
he was opposed to the bill. The effect
of all that would lead conclusively to
the view that if you adopt this amend-
ment you will kill the bill. He said,
“We are opposedhto the bill”; so, vote
for this amendment and kill the bill.

Mr. DAWSON of Utah. That is the
effect of it.

M1. HENDERSON. Mr.
will the gentleman yield?

Mr. DAWSON of Utah. I yield.

Mr. HENDERSON. I would like to ask
the gentleman a question or two about
the bill originally introduced. Do I un-
derstand that this bill would affect only
those packers who intend to sell to the
Government?

Mr. DAWSON of Utah. That is my
understanding.

Mr. HENDERSON. Does it affect
packers who sell in interstate commerce?

Mr. DAWSON of Utah. No; it affects
only those packers who are selling meat
to the Government.

That is

Chairman,

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD -— HOUSE

Mr. HENDERSON. Does it include
the school-lunch program as has been
mentioned?

Mr. DAWSON of Utah. It could; yes.

Mr. HENDERSON. I would also like
to ask why, on page 2, there is reference
to price supports? What do price sup-
ports have to do with this bill?

Mr. DAWSON of Utah. I think per-
haps the chairman of the committee
could give a better explanation than I,
but it is my understanding that the ques-
tion of price supports could come in be-
cause of Government buying of meat
surpluses.

Mr. COOLEY. It applies to the
school-lunch program-

Mr. HENDERSON. Then this bill
would include those who are slaughter-
ing for the school-lunch program.

Mr. DAWSON of Utah. That would
come under Government procurement.

Mr. HIESTAND. Mr. Chairman, I rise
in opposition to the amendment, but I

”will not take the full 5 minutes to which

I am entitled.

Mr. Chairman, I am very reluctant to
oppose my, colleague from South Caro-
lina, but it‘ becomes obvious that the
effect of the amendment is to kill the
bill. We have had this matter before us
for several years. I. introduced a bill
about 4 years ago to this effect.

The Nation, Mr Chairman, wants us
to legislate for humane slaughtering.
There is more to it than just the feeling
of the animals; in my judgment the big-
gest factor is human reaction, because
human beings are shocked by this con-
tinuation year after year of inhumane
slaughtering that amounts to cruelty; it
is shocking to a lot of people in this
country who have been writing to Mem—
bers of Congress. They dislike to have
their children know that we are con-
tinuing something of this kind 20 years
after European nations have abolished it
asbruel and inhumane.

Mr. Chairman, I feel that this is a bill
we can all get together on. It is a com'-
promise bill but it is the best that can be
had at this time, and it is subject to
amendment in future years if new inven-
tions come along, making amendment
desirable. ‘

I emphatically oppose the amendment,
MIM'. Chairman.

r. DORN of South Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, I ask unanimous consent that
the Clerk read the amendment.

The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection
to the request of the gentleman from
South Carolina?

There was no objection. .

(The Clerk read the amendment.)

The CHAIRMAN. The question is on
the amendment offered by the gentle-
man from South Carolina.

The question was taken; and on a di-
vision (demanded by Mr. DORN of South
Carolina) there were—~ayes '73, noes 122.

So the amendment was rejected.

Mr. POAGE. Mr. Chairman, I ask
unanimous consent that the balance of
the bill be considered as read and open
for amendment at any point.

The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection
to the request of‘the gentleman from
Texas?

1447

There was no objection.
The balance of the bill follows:

SEC. 3. The public policy declared herein
shall be taken into consideration by all
agencies of the Federal Government in con-
nection with all procurement and price sup-
port programs and operations and no agency
or instrumentality of the United States shall
contract for or procure any livestock prod-
ucts produced or processed by any slaugh-
terer or processor which in any of its pl nts
or in any plants of any slaughterer or pro-
cessor with which it is afﬁliated slaughters
or handles in connection with slaughter
livestock by any methods other than
methods designated and approved by the
Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter re-
ferred to as the Secretary) pursuant to sec-
tion 4 hereof : Provided, That during the
period of any national emergency declared
by the President or the Congress, the limi-
tations on procurement required by this
seetion may be modiﬁed by the President to
the extent determined by him to be neces-
sary to meet essential procurement needs _
during such emergency. For the purposes
of this section a slaughterer or processor

. shall be deemed to be afﬁliated with another

slaughterer or processor if it controls, is con-
trolled by, or is under common control with,
such other slaughterer or processor. Each
supplier from which any livestock products
are procured by any agency of the Federal
Government shall be required by such
agency to make such statement of eligibility
under this section to. supply such livestock
products as, if false, will subject the maker
thereof to prosecution, title 18, United.
States Code, section 287.

SEC. 4. In furtherance of the policy ex-
pressed herein the Secretary is authorized
and directed—

(a) to conduct, assist, and foster research.
investigation, and experimentation to devel-
op and determine methods of slaughter and
the handling of livestock in connection with
slaughter which are practicable with ref-
erence to the speed and scope of slaughtering
operations and humane with reference to
other existing methods and then current
scientiﬁc knowledge;

‘(b) on or before June 30, 1958, and at such
times thereafter as he deems advisable, to
designate methods of slaughter and of han-
dling in connection with slaughter which,
with respect to each species of livestock, con-
form to the policy stated herein. If he
deems it more effective, the Secretary may
make any such designation by designating
methods which are not in conformity with
such policy. Designations by the Secretary
subsequent to Ja uary 1, 1959, shall become
effective forpurposes of section 3 hereof 180
days after their publication in the Federal
Register;

(c) to provide suitable means of identify-
ing the carcasses of animals inspected and
passed under the Meat Inspection Act (21
U. S. C. 71 and the following) that have been
slaughtered in accordance with the public
policy declared herein.

SEC 5. To assist in implementing the pro-
visions of section 4, the Secretary is author-
ized to establish an advisory committee. The
functions of the Advisory Committee shall
be to consult With the Secretary and other
appropriate ofﬁcials of the Department of
Agriculture and to make recommendations
relative to (a) the research authorized in
section 4; (b) obtaining the cooperation of
the public, producers, farm organizations,
industry groups, humane associations, and.
Federal and State agencies in the further-
ance of such research and the adoption of-
improved methods; and (c) the designations
required by section 4. The Committee shall
be composed of 12 members, of whom ‘1 shall
be an ofﬁcer or employee of the Department
of Agriculture designated by the Secretary

 




 

1448'

(who shall serve as Chairman); 2 shall be
representatives of national organizations of
slaughters; 1 shall be a representative of the
trade-union movement engaged in packing-
house work; 1 shall be a representative of the
general public; 2 shall be representatives of
livestock growers; 1 shall be a representative
of the poultry industry; 2 shall be repre‘
sentatives of national organizations of the
humane movement; 1 shall be a representa-
tive of a national professional veterinary
organization; and 1 shall be a person fa-
miliar with the requirements of religious
faiths with respect to slaughter. The De-
partment of Agriculture shall assist the Com-
mittee with such research personnel and
facilities as the Department can make
available. Committee members other than
the Chairman shall not be deemed
to be employees of the United States
and are not entitled to compensation
'but the Secretary is ‘ authorized to allow
their travel expenses and subsistence
expenses in connection with their attendance
at regular or special meetings of the Com-
mittee. The Committee shall meet at least
once each year and at the call of the Secre-
tary and shall from time to time submit to
the Secretary such reports and recommenda-
tions with respect -to ’new or improved
methods as it believes should be taken into
consideration by him in making the desig-
nations rquired by section 4 and the Secre-r
tary shall make all such reports available to
the public.

"‘ With the following, committee amend-
ments:

I f Page 2, line 18, strike out ”on and after
July 1, 1959” and insert “After December 31,
1959.”
,Page 3, line 11, strike out “on and after
July 1, .1959” and insert “after December 31,
1959.”

Page 4, line 11, strike out “January” and
insert “J uly.”

‘1 The
agreed to.

Mr. HARVEY. Mr. Chairman, I
move to strike out the last word.

Mr. Chairman, I am reluctant to rise-

in opposition to this bill. It is pretty
obvious to me that it is going to pass.
Certainly I would have to say, that the
motives back of it are commendable. I
want to compliment the'committee, too,
although I voted against it in committee
and I spoke against it in committee. The
committee has made a very distinct and
commendable effort to make sure that
the bill be as fair and equitable as pos-
sible.

There are two main classes of live-
stock involved in this bill, hogs and cat-
tle. So far as cattle are concerned, I
think the controversy has been pretty
well ironed out. There are 2 methods
of slaughter approved here, 1 for kosher
meat and the other for other ‘ than
kosher meat, as far as beef is concerned.

I think the argument that has been
most vocal has had to do- with the
slaughter of hogs. I have had a good
deal of experience in this ﬁeld. I think
I know a little about it. I know, as I
have heard from various witnesses, that
the present method of slaughtering hogs
does offend the sensibility of many peo-
ple, and it was primarily that one fact
alone that had to do with bringing this
bill before us today. And, it has, of
course, occasioned a great deal of
thought on my part. But, let me say to
you in all fairness that regardless of
“whether your sensibilities are offended by

. .,.1-
V‘.

committee amendments were}

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —— HOUSE

the present method, the commonest
method of slaughtering hogs, it is in my
judgment the most humane method of
slaughtering hogs.

In order to conﬁrm my opinion on this
I had the opportunity to discuss it with
a very eminent research specialist in this
ﬁeld. He had no idea when I questioned
him as to what I was driving at or why
I was questioning him, but he said with-
out question that in his opinion the pe-
riod of suffering endured by an animal,
a ‘hog, for example, that wasdrowned in
carbon dioxide or was attempted to be
rendered unconscious
methods was as much as one where the
throat of the animal was slit, as is the
present method; unconsciousness would
come, in his opinion, quicker and with
less suffer mg.

I would have no objection, of courSe, in
certain instances, wheie packing plants
are set up to do so, to the method of using
carbon dioxide if they chose to do so.
But, I do feel that in many instances it
will impose an undue burden and an
unnecessaiy bur den on many small pack-
ing plants scattered throughout the
country.

Mr. Chairman, I believe much good
already has come from the presentation
of this bill, and I am certainly heartily
in favor of its objective. But, it is a sad
fact, I think, for those who care to study
it, that the proposed improvement of
humane slaughter so far as it applies to
hogs is just not an actual fact. ‘

Mr. GROSS. Mr. Chairman, I offer
an amendment. °

The Clerk read asfollows:

Amendment offered by Mr. G309s: On page
4, strike out lines 19 through 25; on page 5,
all of line 1 through 25; and on page 6, all of
lines 1 through line 7.

(Mr. GROSS asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his
remarks.)

Mr. GROSS. Mr. Chairman, this is a
peculiar bill for it is supposed to provide
for the humane slaughter of livestock.
If present methods of slaughtering live,-
stock are inhumane, then this bill legal-
izes the inhumane slaughter of livestock

for a special provision has been adopted .

to that effect. Thus you are for the ﬁrst

time legalizing inhumane slaughter of‘

livestock if you vote for this bill.

My amendment would strike out sec-
tion 5 of the bill which provides fora
commission. This Government today is
overrun with boards, bureaus, commis-
sions, and advisory committees. Appar-
ently it has become fashionable, every
time someone brings in a bill to tie onto
it an advisory committee or an advisory
commission. What will this 12-member
advisory commission or committee do?
It will recommend. It has no power to
do anything but recommend.

The gentleman from New York [Mr.
KEARNEY], earlier this afternoon, raised
a pertinent question: What is this bill
going to cost? There was no answer to
his question and there is nothing in the
bill to tell. The committee can go on
from now until doomsday; there is no
termination/date. It makes recommen-
dations to the Secretary of Agriculture.
In some places in the bill we are led to
believe that it will become effective on

by electrolytic -

 

February 4

December, 31, 1959, yet on page 4 of the
bill, we ﬁnd the following:

'On or before June 30, 1958, and at such
times thereafter as he deems advisable.

And so forth, and so on, the Secretary
of Agriculture is authorized and directed
to do thus and so. When do the provi-
sions of this bill become effective? Is
it June 30, 1958, or December 31,1959?
Which is it?

It is haidly possible the committee
can be established and organized to pro-
vide recommendations to the Secretary
of Agricultuie in the n01mal course of
the passage of legislation in both bodies
before June 30,1958.

I am opposed to this commission as
being just another expense upon the
taxpayers of this country. It is time we
stopped setting up advisory committees
and advisory boards every time a bill is
brought to the floor of the House.

Mr. HARVEY. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield?

Mr. GROSS. I yield to the gentle-
man from Indiana.

Mr. HARVEY. ,I think it should be
Said that in this bill we are actually
legalizing the slaughtering of cattle in
the same way that we are attempting to
make illegal that method so far as hogs
are concerned.

Mr. GROSS. That is correct.

Mr. DAWSON of Utah. Mr.
man, will the gentleman yield?

Mr. GROSS. I yield to the gentleman.

Mr. DAWSON of Utah. Would the
gentleman inform the Committee wheth-
er or not the members ’of this commis-
sion are to receive any copensation from
the Government.

Mr. GROSS They do not receive
compensation as such but suppose they
appoint several members from distant
parts of the country and the meetings
are held in Washington. That is going
to cost the taxpayers considerable money
if the committee or commission runs
for 10 or 20 years.

I urge adoption of my amendment.
Let us stop this empire building in the
Federal Government.

. Mr. POAGE. Mr. Chairman, I move
to strike out the last word.

Mr. Chairman, I want to say that in
the committee I felt that we did not
need a commission. The committee de-
cided that we did need a commission in
order to share some of the responsibil—
ity with the Secretary. There has been a
good deal of concern expressed here”
about the fact that the Secretary did not
want .to assume these obligations; and
he does not want to do so. He said he
did not. So we gave him this advisory
commission.~ This commission will ad- '
vise whether in their opinion certain
procedures are humane or whether cer- ,
tain procedures are not humane. Then'
the Secretary may follow that advice or
he may ignore it, as he sees ﬁt and will ,
then proceed to promulgate regulations.

The bill does say that he shall pro-
mulgate regulations a year before they
go into effect. This is to put the packer
on notice. I feel that the gentleman
must misunderstand.

The gentleman objected strenuously
to the fact that we are requiring the
Secretary to do something within about

Chair-




1958

6 months. We require him to give no-
tice so that the industry may know what
they are going to have to live under.

Mr. GROSS. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?

Mr. POAGE. I yield.

Mr. GROSS. I do not object to it.
But I am saying that speaker after
speaker has said that this does not go
into effect until December 31, 1959,
when, as a matter of fact, it goes into
effect June 30 of this year.

Mr. POAGE. Mr. Chairman, I think
the gentleman is mistaken in that; the
requirement of humane practices does
not go into effect in June. It says the
Secretary must at least tell the industry
what they may expect some time in ad-
vance, That is all welare trying to do
here. ‘

We want to see that the Secretary will
give notice so‘me time in advance. It
seems to me that since the commission
is not allowed to draw a salary, as the
gentleman has intimated it would, and
since the commission cannot be the ex—

pensive agency that it was suggested it'

might become, and since the commission
might give some little help to the Sec-
retary of Agriculture, who'said he did
not want to have this responsiblity
thrust upon his shoulders, even though
you may feel as I did, that we probably
.might just as well act without any com-
mission, it seems to me that we might
just as well keep thisprovision of the
bill, pass it, get a bill, and send it to the
Senate and stop this argument. .

Mr. THOMSON of Wyoming. Mr.
Chairman, I move to strike out the last
word.

Mr. Chairman, this is called a humane
slaughter bill. We know that we do not
slaughter humans, and until the six-
teenth century that is what the word
humane meant. But in the quest for
. food we slaughter livestock to obtain

that food. ‘A more recent meaning of
humane as to animals is to treat them
with kindness and compassion. Humane
slaughter then means killing them with
kindness and compassion. I am for use
of slaughter methods that would in-
volve the most kindness and compassion
consonant with supplying our need for
food, as I am sure are all other Members
of this body. Certain parts of this bill
though concern me.

In section 4, subpara’graph (b), it is
stated, in putting the burden“ of deter-
mining humane methods on the Secre-
tary. I am surprised to see this recogni-
tion of his good judgment on the part
of certain members of the committee.
I quote from the bill:

On or before June 30, 1958, and at such
times thereafter as he deems advisable, to
deSignate methods of slaughter and of han-
dling in connection with slaughter which,
with respect to each species of livestock,
conform to the policy stated herein.

'Would the gentleman tell me what the
policy stated herein is, that is to what
that language refers?

Mr. POAGE. It is stated in section 2.
It says now that certain procedures, are
found by the Congress to be humane.
We say that those stated inthe Anfuso
amendment, which we adopted, are hu-
mane. Any packinghouse may rely on
that. If the owner‘of a packinghouse

”mane.

complies with these methods, he builds
his plant in accordance therewith. He
is not subject to variations of opinion
on the part of the Secretary of Agri-
culture, because he knows that the Con-
gress has stated that these things are
humane, and they remain so regardless
of changes in the personnel in the De-
partment of Agriculture or changes of
opinion there. The Secretary, however,
may prescribe other methods that he
may say are humane, but he cannot deny
the things Congress has said are hu—
So we do give to the packing in-
dustry the stability that hasbeen sug-
gested does not exist. At the same time
we give to the Secretary'the right and
we give to this Commission the duty, to
try to determine, as scientiﬁc. knowledge
advances, just what other additional
methods are humane, that we might not
have simply a static situation where we
could not take advantage of the new
developments of science but instead, as
new developments appeared, we could
take advantage of them, at the same
time protecting the packinghouse invest-
ment in that type of method which is
declared by the Congress to be humane.

Mr. THOMSON of Wyoming. I thank
the gentleman.

Mr. RHODES of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Chairman, I rise in support of H. R.
8308, the humane slaughtering bill. The
cruel and inhumane practices being used
in the slaughtering industry are well
known and have been adequately docu-

mented. New devices are readily avail-

able to permit humane slaughter of live-
stock. There is no reason why this
should not' be done, since the present
slaughtering methods are so offensive to
the sensibilities of millions of people.

Mr. ENGLE. Mr. Chairman, I just
want to make a few remarks in favor of
the bill now before us. I strongly sup-
port this legislation, which in my opinion
is long overdue.

I believe a national policy should be
established to encourage methods for the
humane slaughtering of livestock, and
this bill certainly serves that purpose. It
is not a hodge-podge piece of legislation.

,It is a culmination of nearly 2 years of

study and thorough hearings by the re-
spective committees of the House and
Senate.

I feel conﬁdent that in accordance

,with the intentions of the bill that satis-

factory and practicable methods can be
established throughout the Nation for
the humane slaughter of livestock.

I hope my colleagues will join with me
in supporting the legislation.

Mr. ULLMAN. Mr. Chairman, I urge
that H. R. 8308 be enacted. The evil
which this bill is designed to abolish is
one well deserving of eradication. At
the present time painful and inhumane

methods of slaughter are widely used-
throughout this country. We who are .

charged with setting up minimal stand-
ards in this area have allowed primitive
methods of commercial slaughter to con-
tinue with a resulting painful and slow
death for countless animals.

Mr. Chairman, such a situation has
not continued because humane methods
are unavailable or not perfected. Cer-
tainly alternative methods do exist and

the adoption of them would involve only q

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE

Q

1449

a small additional cost. I think their
adoption is long overdue.

Mr. Chairman, I am fully in sympathy
with the objectives of this legislation and
I urge its prompt passage.

The CHAIRMAN. The question is on
the amendment offered by the gentle~
man from Iowa [Mr. GROSS].

The question was taken; and on 'a
division (demanded by Mr. GROSS),
there were—ayes 44, noes 100.

So the amendment was rejected.

The CHAIRMAN. Under the rule,
the Committee rises.

Accordingly the Committee rose, and
the Speakerhaving resumed the chair, -
Mr. HERLONG, Chairman of the Commit-
tee of the Whole House on the State of
the Union, reported that that Commit-
tee, having had under consideration the
bill (H. R. 8308) to establish the use of
humane methods of slaughter of live-
stock as a policy of the United States,
and for other purposes, pursuant to
House Resolution 376, he reported the
bill back to the House with sundry
amendments adopted by the Committee
of the Whole.

Mr. SMITH - of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I make the point of order that
a quorum is not present.

The SPEAKER. The Chair will
count. [After counting] Two hun-.
dred ﬁfty Members are present, a
quorum.

Under the rule, the previous question

is ordered.

Is a separate vote demanded on any
amendment? If not, the Chair will put
them in gross. ' ,

The question is on the amendments.

The amendments were agreed to.

The SPEAKER. The question is on
the engrossment and third reading of
the bill.

The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read. a third time and was read the
third time.

The SPEAKER. The question is on
the passage of the bill. .

The bill was passed, and a motion to
reconsider was laid on the table.

‘3;

GENERAL LEAVE TO EXTEND

Mr. POAGE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to

extend their remarks on the bill just

passed.

The SPEAKER. . Is there objection to
the request of the gentleman from
Texas?

There was no objection.

 

CORRECTION OF BILL

Mr. POAGE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to correct line 3,
page 2, by striking out the word “the.”

The SPEAKER. Without objection, it
is so ordered.

There was no objection.

 

_TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF

IMPORT DUTIES ON CERTAIN
COARSE WOOL

Mr. MILLS. Mr. Speaker, I move that
the House resolve itself into the Com-,

 




1450

mittee of the Whole House on the State
of the Union for the consideration of the
bill (H. R. 2151) to amend certain pro-
visions of the Tariff Act of 1930 relative
to import duties on certain coarse wool.

The motion was agreed to.

Accordingly, the House resolved itself
into the Committee of the Whole House
on the State of the Union for the con-
sideration of the bill (H. R. 2151), with
Mr. BOLAND in the chair.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

By unanimous consent, the ﬁrst read-
ing of the bill was dispensed with.

The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman
from Arkansas [Mr. MILLS] is recog-
nized for 1 hour, under the rule, and the
gentleman from New York [Mr. REED]
will be, recognized for 1 hour.

The Chair now recognizes the gentle-
man from Arkansas [Mr. MILLS].

Mr. MILLS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself 13 minutes. .

Mr. Chairman, I rise to strongly urge
passage of H. R. 2151 by the House of
Representatives.

The purpose of this-meritorious legise
_ lation is to suspend for a limited time
the import duties on certain coarse wools
imported under bond for use in the
manufacture of rugs and carpets. At
the present time paragraph 1101 (b) of
the Tariff Act of 1930 provides for free
entry under bond of imports of certain
wools and animal hair for use in the
manufacture of rugs and carpets and
certain other items such as press cloth,
lumberman’s socks, and a. few other
similar products. These wools consist
of so-called‘ unimproved wools and other
improved wool not ﬁner than 40’s, and
camel’s hair. The so-called unim-
proved wools are those from sheep which
are native to certain regions and which
have not been improved through cross-
breeding with Marino or English sheep.
Other wool not ﬁner than 40’s are the
coa’rser grades obtained from cross-bred
sheep.

This legislation now pending before
the Committee would add to the wools
which are now permitted duty-free im-
portation for the speciﬁed uses those
woo‘ls, which are ﬁner that 40’s but not
ﬁner than 46’s. The bill is limited to a
period of 3 years. A so-‘called tolerance
provision is included, as has been cus-
toniary in the past, so that a tolerance of
not more than 10 percent of wools not
ﬁner than 48’s may be allowed in each
bale or packageof wools imported if not
ﬁner than 46’s.

Mr. Chairman, there is urgent need
for this legislatiOn. It is designed to pro—
vide our domestic carpet industry with
sources of raw supplies so that it may
compete on an equal basis with the in-
creasing ‘imports of foreign-made car-
pets. Traditionally, the Congress has
permitted duty-free entry of carpet-
grade wools. This accounts for the fact
that no added protection for the carpet
industry of a speciﬁc duty was given.
However, the volume of these grades of
wools entering international trade has
been much smaller than consumption.
Information brought to our Commit-tee
indicates that there has been a world—
wide shortage of carpet-grade wools and,
as a result, foreign manufacturers have

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE

been utilizing wools up to grade 46’s.
Your Committee was advised that these
ﬁner grades of wools are not as satis-
factory as the coarser grade, but they are
now being used by foreign carpet manu-
facturers because of the shortage of
coarse grades of Wool. These foreign
manufacturers can obtain this additional
class of wools much cheaper than domes-
tic manufacturers are able to obtain such
wool because the domestic manufactur-
ers have to pay a duty on it.

Mr. BAILEY. Mr. Chairman; will the_

gentleman yield?

Mr. MILLS. Iyield.

Mr. BAILEY. Was there testimony
given before the Ways and Means Com-
mittee, of which you happen to be chair-
man, to show that American-produced
wool cannot be used in the manufacture
of the rugs you are talking about?

Mr. MILLS. Yes. I will come to that
later.

Mr. BAILEY. And it was not refuted?

Mr. MILLS. No, sir. If the gentle-
man will permit me, I will come to that
later, and then I will yield.

The foreign carpetmakers have a de-
cided advantage over our United States
carpetmakers. Convincing evidence was
presented to the. Commit-tee on Ways
and Means that the domestic carpet
industry is faced with a squeeze which
has placed it in a very adverse position
competitively because, on the one hand,
it cannot obtain economically the raw
wool which it needs in order to compete
and, on the other hand, it is faced with
mounting competition from imported
foreign carpets. _

Mr. Chairman, this legislation has
been before the Congress now for sev-
eral years. A bill was introduced in the
84th Congress, reported by the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, and barely
failed of passage by a two-thirds vote
under suspension of the rules in the
closing days of the second session of
that Congress. The primary obéection
which was urged on the ﬂoor of the
House at that time was that no public
hearings had been held on the bill and
that there might in some way be an
adverse effect upon domestic wool pro-
ducers and the domestic felt industry.
In the fall of 1956, hearings were held
on the legislation and all interested par-
ties were given adequate opportunity to
thoroughly and completely present their
Views. The Committee on Ways and
Means requested and received up-to-
date departmental reports on the new
bill when it was introduced in the early
days of theipresent Congress. It .gave
this bill most thorough and painstaking
consideration in executive session, re-
ceiving views from ofﬁcials of all the
interested departments and agencies.
The bill was reported favorably from
our committee by an overwhelming
majority. 7

This bill, in the View of the Commit-
tee on Ways and Means, will help our
domestic rug industry to compete effec-
tively and will not result in any adverse
effect upon our domestic wool producers
or our domestic felt industry. Infor-
mation brought to the attention of the
committee shows that domestic produc-

“tion of wools suitable for carpet use is

February 4

so slight as to be practically nonexist-
ent,.and that the domestic felt industry
already has added protection in the
form of a compensatory duty which the
carpet industry does not have.

' The only Department which reported
adversely on this legislation was the De-
partment of Agriculture. In.reporting
on the bill in the 84th Congress, ofﬁcials
of the Department based their. objec-
tions upon psychological grounds. They
did not bring to the attention of the

. committee facts to show that the wools

concerned by this legislation are pro-
duced in any quantity in the United
States. That Department has continued
to oppose the bill, although they have yet
to bring tangible, ﬁrm evidence to the
committee to show wherein this legisla—
tion would injuriously affect domestic
wool producers. Their opposition, it ap-
pears, continues to be based on psycho-
logical grounds. Ofﬁcials of the De-
partment of Agriculture, when the new
bill was considered in executive session,
indicated that some wool had been sold

' by the Commodity Credit Corporation to

domestic carpet manufacturers. .How-
ever, when questioned as to whom these
sales were made and in precisely what,
quantities, no answers were forthcoming
at that time from the ofﬁcials. Subse-
quently, they did supply factual infor-
mation on one sale which had been made,
and it turned out that this was inﬁnites-
imal as compared to the amount of
wools needed for the domestic manufac-
ture of carpets. Information, subse-
quently furnished the committee also
indicated that the one purchase of wool
of the grades indicated from the Com-
modity Credit Corporation proved to be
unsatisfactory and that no further pur-
chases were made.

The carpet industry is to be com—
mended for urging this legislation. That
industry did not come to the Congress A
and ask for an advantage; they came
and asked merely to be placed on an

equal footing with their foreign com-

petitors insofar as obtaining their neces-
sary raw supplies is concerned. They
said, in effect, we can take care of our- .
selves if you will permit us to obtain our
needed raw materials on the same basis
‘and on the same footing as our foreign
competitors obtain their raw materials.
The domestic carpet industry is asking
for simply equity so that they can com-
pete in the market place and they are
not here asking for a special advantage.

The Committee-on Ways and Means
was careful to place safeguards in this
legislation. The wool which would be

, brought in must be under bond and can-

not be used for other than the stated
purposes. The Treasury Department
has advised the Committee on Ways and
Means that, in View of the control exer-
cised through the bond which is required
and through- the departmental regula-
tions, there is no reason to anticipate
evasions of the law and deﬂection of this
wool for other than the stated‘purposes.
The Committee on Ways and Means has
also placed a 3-year limitation on this ’
legislation so that the Congress can
again take a look at the situation after‘
the bill has been in operation for a. lim- '
ited period of time. Certainly these safe-

 




ElGHTY-FIFI'H CONGRESS

HAROLD D. COOLEY, N. (3., CHAIRMAN
w. R. POAGE, TEX., VICE CHAIRMAN

GEORGE M. GRANT, ALA. AUGUST H. ANDRESEN, MINN. ,

E. C. GATHINGS. ARK. WILLIAM s. HILL, COLO. E as 5 f R p g m t h s raw: %
JOHN L. MC MILLAN. s. C. CHARLES S. HOEVEN, IOWA ﬂ see e as t - a I e p. 0 L °
THOMAS G. AEERNETHY, MISS. SID SIMPSON, ILL.

CARL ALBERT, OKLA. PAUL a. DAGUE. PA. @ummittge on ggtitultute

WATKINS M. ABBITT, VA. RALPH HARVEY, IND.

JAMES G. POLK, OHIO PAGE BELCHER. OKLA.

CLARK w. THOMPSON, TEx. CLIFFORD G. MCINTIRE, MAINE Wagbin to" E at
PAUL C. JONES, MO. WILLIAM R. WILLIAMS, N. Y. g ’ ’ '
JOHN C. WA'ITS, KY. ROBERT D. HARRISON, NEBR.

HARLAN HAGEN, CALIF. HENRY ALDOUS DIXON, UTAH

LESTER R. JOHNSON, WIS. WINT SMITH. KANS.

VICTOR L. ANFuso, N. Y. OTTO KRUEGER, N. DAK.

Ross SASS, TENN. CHARLES M. TEAGUE. CALIF.

MRS. COYA KNUTSON, MINN. DONALD E. TEWES, WIS.

w. PAT JENNINGS, VA. DELEGATES ’
11 Februar 12 l 8
D' R' (B'LLY) MA “Ews' FLA' E. L. (BOB) BARTLETT, ALASKA y ’ 95
JOHN A. BURNS, HAWAII

RESIDENT COMMISSIONER
A. FERNOS-ISERN, PUERTO RICO

MRS. MABEL C. DOWNEY, CLERK
JOHN J. HEIMBURGER. COUNSEL

Miss Christine Stevens
Secretary-Treasurer

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue, Room 812

New Iork 22, New York

Dear Miss Stevens:

I am indeed grateful to you.f0r the
sentiment which you expressed in your letter of Feb»
ruary tenth which relates to the humane slaughter bill.

Since the above—mentioned legislation
was reported hy'onr Committee and a great deal of time
was oonsumed in the hearings. and so many good citizens
of America recommeided the legislation, I am delighted
that favorable action was taken in the House. I commend
you and others who c00perated with the Committee and
assisted all of us in the enactment of legislation which

I hope will be in all respects satisfactory.

Should you.have occasion to visit our
Nation's Capital again, I shall be happy to have you drop
by my office for a visit.

Cordially yours,

Chairman

 




 

 

2:; 1:) 1.22mi} r: it 1:: a t... ., m

a...

, ‘ ., .. n. p»
._ . . 1 5 ...~
jg.” H 3—. V‘u'

.3331" cm

an} H. f’y‘l‘” 1 x,
‘ 1.5.3:}. “3.3;: d

,1qu a

7‘ ‘6" r“.'7'»"f“°:i"i’5 5 2.“ , ’:
{ﬁr-«.3; r". 1' ‘ é. r ‘ “

.. , .u r”; ,1 { ';. m, ..

‘ ' - “:1
fl 1} 2 LCDLJU (3"qu . -
y, 1 ,. ’

51::3 a: mg, can , ,.

iii . C _.

,. .. ,..,, ,, .,.‘-. 3.". , ~v
""1 i 7‘11 -“ 13,75,” -...‘:.: ‘ ﬁv‘ {if I
~'. A. £1.33 ‘sgyxtu‘ an.) sigma-Lia

,4. _ '..
., .«
r -*
o: .

EXTENSION OF REMARKS

- - OF .
HON. ABRAHAM J. MULTER
‘ OF NEW YORK , ,
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES .
, Monday, August 18,1958
_ Mr. MULTER. Mr. Speaker, I com-

. mend to the attention of our colleagues

the following editorial which appeared
in the New York Herald Tribune 0:. Aug—
ust 15, 1958: ‘ ~-

‘ ,. HUMANE SLAUGHTER Is PASSED

The ‘humane slaughter bill has passed

. Congress at last, after decades of struggle.

It now needs only the President’s signature,

. which we hope he will soon afﬁx, to become

law. :

, Anyone who has ever visited an ordinary
slaughterhouse may well wonder why it
has taken 30 years for Congress to agree to"
the simple principle that an animal ought
to be rendered genuinely insensitive, to pain
before it is butchered. Of course there has
been‘opposition from some of ‘the meatpack-

. ing houses beCaUSe they, feared f/Lhat“ such

methods (either electric stunning or carbOn ,

dioxide gas) would be "very costly, although
thishas not prov'ed to be the case "in the
long run. But this kind of opposition should
never have been able to frustrate the very

’widely held conviction that needless cruelty

is an affront to our civilization. And it'is
not Just professional animal lovers Who
think this. Man is a part of nature, and
indignity of cruelty to nature inevitably, in
one way or another, sullies human dignity.

Perhaps no. bill in recent history has had
so many loyal and hard-working supporters.
Many of these peoplek like.“ , :

t9 012119;” i. "

N W, ﬁﬁkrﬂefﬁés ~~ . ., . ,
mane?” societges . ”y 5 ‘ _. 7),. ,. erg ‘We
”gig” .: i _:.. _,, A, '.-I; luau-3f ;‘ x;

A ‘4.

l ,. y‘ .

.- .: . ._,_,

' “its“:
‘ , .

A

citizensgv-wmi ; ui-gccnscleneegamber they
have limraalyrhembardod'ﬁenamiﬁé‘and Rep-
resentatives with messages, ' which, appar-
ently, have at last made their, point. They
formed 'a lobby, if you like, but it was a.
lobby of conscience. Animals, after all,
have no vote. ,

The bill does not require meatpackers
to slaughter humanely, but it does forbid
Government agencies to buy meat which has
not ,been so slaughtered, which is close to
the same thing. :The major packinghouses,
which do so much business with. the Gov-
ernment, will have to conform. 'Finishing
touches in the form of an expanded bill,
may be added at 'a later date. .But the
principle has been accepted, and that is the
important thing. ~

}

 

 




STATEMENT BY REP. WILLIAM A. DAWSON IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES FEBRUARY 4, 1958

ON HUMANE SLAUGHTER LEGISLATION

Mr. Speaker:

I am one of the original sponsors of this legislation. May I confess that
I started out as-a reluctant sponsor. It is against my political philosophy
generally to favor legislation which compels any individual or business or
industry to do something which should be done voluntarily. It was only after
I had determined through my own independent investigation that--with the exception
of all too few progressive companies-~the meat packing industry was making little
or no progress in this field, only then did I decide humane slaughter legislation
was necessary.

I am happy to report that under the goad of this bill and similar bills,
some progress is now being made. When this measure was first introduced in
January of 1957, the Department of Agriculture could not furnish me with any
estimate of what percentage of our livestock were rendered insensible to pain
by humane methods before being slaughtered. Now, I am informed by the Department,
more than half of all beef slaughtered under Federal meat inspection is stunned
by approved mechanical methods.

This legislation will have no effect upon the scores of packers who already
have adapted their operations to conform with the minimum requirements of humane
decency called for in this bill. This bill is directed towards that segment of

the industry which has done too little; which will continue to do too little

and will do it too late-~or never. Without legislation, I am convinced, cruel,

wantonly cruel practices against millions of animals will continue to be standard
procedure.

I do not intend to go into lengthy descriptions of present methods of
slaughter now followed by most of our packing plants. I do think it is safe to
say that there is not a member of Congress who would condone these methods if
he witnessed them being practiced on one dumb animal and knew that such practices
were unnecessary. I submit that corporate cruelty--if a ready alternative is
available-~is a fit subject for legislative action.

The enactment of this humane slaughter bill will not force an industry into
unexplored territory. Humane slaughter has been compulsory in Switzerland since
1874. England adopted a similar law in 1933. Other nations requiring humane
slaughter are Norway, the Netherlands, Scotland, Ireland, Finland, Sweden, New
Zealand and Denmark. Years of experience in each of these countries has proved

that humane slaughter practes are economically beneficial to the industry.

 




‘

2222222222222222

We need not go to Europe to verify the feasibility of humane slaughter
practices. Companies in the United States have found that the immobilization of
hogs by carbon dioxide has saved more money in the reduction of damaged meat than
was spent for the installation of the new equipment. Captive bolt pistol stunning
devices to replace the uncertain pole ax are available at $120--an investment
even the most modest of plants can afford.

Why, then, one may ask is this legislation necessary? Why is it being
opposed by the packing industry generally? I can only conclude that the industry
is caught in the inertia of tradition. In this regard, I can only say to the

M;

members of the industry, Recall your fight against the Federal Meat Inspection
Act in the early part of this century." Let the packers reread the arguments
they made to Congress against that law which grew out of public revulsion against
the shoddy, unsanitary conditions that prevailed in a portion of their industry.
We can only hope that by reviewing their attitude then against minimum sanitary
laws-~and comparing it with their attitude now against minimum humane laws——they
will profit by experience.

Certainly this industry which contributes so much to our fine standard of
living should be in the vangard of this fight to end needless cruelty. To that
portion of the industry that has undertaken that leadership we owe our respect.
For that portion that will resist to the end, we have this bill.

Before concluding, Mr. Speaker, I would like to make a few personal
observations. Many people, including some members of Congress, seem to think
that there is something humorous about this legislation. It has been suggested
that this legislation be amended to include lobsters, fish and other lower animal
life. Their reasoning seems to be that unless we can abolish all needless pain
and cruelty in one legislative swoop, we should take no action at all. To them,
I can only say, man's struggle towards decency, kindness and compassion has been

made in many little steps but we have come a long way since the days of Tamerlane

the tyrant. This bill is another step along that path.

In closing, Mr. Speaker, I would like once again to pay tribute to the many
individual citizens with whom I have had the pleasure of working on this legislation.
Opponents of this bill have come to me and characterized these fine people as
“sentimentalists and dreamers.“ To my mind, however, these people belong with
the other so-called sentimentalists and dreamers-~the ones in the past who were
so misguided to believe that child labor could be abolished, or who argued that

madness was a subject for medicine, not mockery. It has been a distinct pleasure

 




333333333333333

to work with them for this bill to outlaw mass cruelty to dumb animals--a
cruelty that is indefensible because it need not continue.

I can only agree with them wholeheartedly that the needless suffering

of some 100 million animals per year is a matter of concern for us all.

 




EIGHTY-FIFTH CONGRESS

HAROLD D. COOLEY. N. C., CHAIRMAN
W. R. POAGE, TEX., VICE CHAIRMAN
GEORGE M. GRANT, ALA. WILLIAM S. HILL, COLO. ’
E. E. EAEH.HEE, AH... E. HAEVEH, HHA 3901152 at Repregmtatmes, QB. 5,
JOHN L. MC MILLAN, S. C. SID SIMPSON, ILL.
THOMAS G. ABERNETHY, MISS. PAUL B. DAGUE, PA.

.AHEAEEEHE, .AEA. HAEHH H H... atnmmittee on agrituIture

WATKINS M. ABBITT. VA. PAGE BELCHER, OKLA.
JAMES G. POLK, OHIO CLIFFORD G. MCINTIRE, MAINE r

CLARK w. THOMPSON, TEX. WILLIAM R. WILLIAMS, N. Y. Magi) Ingtﬂn, %. @.
PAUL c. JONES, MO. ROBERT D. HARRISON, NEBR.

JOHN c. WATTS, KY. HENRY ALDOUS DIXON, UTAH

HARLAN HAGEN. CALIF. WINT SMITH, KANS. . r

LESTER R. JOHNSON, WIS. OTTO KRUEGER, N. DAK. Apr 11 l 89 , 1958
VICTOR L. ANFUSO. N. y. CHARLES M. TEAGUE, CALIF.

ROSS BASS, TENN. DONALD E.TI.=:WES, WIS.

MRS. COYA KNUTSON, MINN. ALBERT H. QUIE, MINN.
W. PAT JENNINGS, VA. DELEGATES

D. R. BILLY MATTHEWS FLA.
( ) ’ E. L. (303) BARTLETT, ALASKA
JOHN A. BURNS. HAWAII

RESIDENT COMMISSIONER
A. FERNés-ISERN, PUERTO RICO

MR8. MABEL C. DOWNEY, CLERK
JOHN J. HEIMBURGER, COUNSEL

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute

22 East 17th Street

New York 3, N. Y.

Dear hrs. Stevens:

With reference to the postcript on your letter of
April 1, 1958, I would not want to go so far as to say that

under no circumstances could any plant not federally inepected
sell meat or meat products to any government agency.

'With reSpect to most such transactions, this is a
matter of executive order and regulation rather than a matter
of law. These orders and regulations are of long standing,
however, and I believe that they are very general and uniform
in their application. I know that the general rule is that
federal agencies may procure meat and meat products only from
federally inspected plants.

I would not want to go so far as to say that there
might not be under any circumstances some exception to this rule.

Sincerely yours,

\ , .mmxﬁ...

John J. Heimburger
Counsel

 




Dear Colleague:

HR 8308, aghedulad.today, is a dangerous bill.
HR 8308 is bitterly oppoaed by the Departmmnt of Agriculture.
It has not been endorsed bw'tha farmers themselves or by their
farm organizationg. It iv Oppoaad by over 2500 amtll moat
packers and slaughterera in thin country. It could adversely
affect the American oonauﬂmrﬂ “f b°0f9 pork, poultry, lamb,
and other meat products.

This bill strikes at waligimus freedom. It affects the
transportation of all 11V95t°0ke The railr0&ds and trucking
Qompaniga have 1191; gndogf'SBd the bill“ Thiﬂ bill OffOOtB GOWI‘YI"
mont procurement for ouf Armaﬁ Forces, school lunches, and price
gupporm. Themfmre, I earmatly Ruliait yaur support of my
substitute bill.

Sincﬁwalyg

In" I. I
' w. {W , c ‘ 1””, _
"I W 13/ iv: Val???) ﬁ'" /\...) a ML’
1‘ '0‘ I 9 [r ‘
I’-

'”/

{,-

Wmﬂ Janninga Bryan Darn, M,C.
Third Eistriot, South Carolina

 




noon

AIABAHA

George Huddleston, Jr.

CALIFERRIA

@eorge P‘ Miller
Charles ME Teague ‘
Harlan Francis Hagen
Gordon L. McDonough
Edgar W. Hiestand
James Roosevelt

COIEEAIE .
Byron'GERogErs

comment

Edwin Hyland May '
Albert P. Ebrano
James Pattarson

FEQBIDA

Eﬁlliam,01 Gramer
Charles E. Bennett
Dante Fascall
Billy Matthews

GEERGIA

Iria Fairclath Blitch ‘

IIJJHOIS

Sidnqy R1 Yates
Charles A. Bayle

IRDIEHA

F. Jay Nimtz

E. Ross Adair
John‘Valentina Beamar
Cecil Murray Harden*
charles B. Brownson

IBHL

Charles B. Heaven
H.R. Gross

KhﬂsAB

Edward. H. Rees .
RETEn V. Georga j.

mam _
Jehn 11. Rab-mm  

LEUISIAEE
Bale Eoggs

MEIEE
Eobert Kala

EABIIAND

Dewitt S. Eyda
Samnal E._Friadelf

: 1 MASSACHUSETTS

E‘dwardP . Eoland

Philip Joseph Phllblnlm

Edith Nourse Eagers
Donald 1; Nicholson

Josaph E} Eart1n, Jr ..’

Bolanﬂ

MHEEIGAH

Iouiﬁ Charles Rabaut
Jahn D. Eingell _
ZMartha‘E’. Griffiths .
Haader

‘” E E :3. 5:: i5 .1 _ r 7” J!
7 F‘ Ens. ¢ 1-1 1 ,-, 1 '~ :4, 1,5 *1 ’11

‘HINNEEOEA

qu‘E. ‘Eier
Eugene J. McCarthy
Gwyn Knutsan

iHISSOURI

Era. John B. Sullivan
George H. Christopher
NEW‘HAMPSHIEE

Chester Earl Eerrow‘

»Perkins Basa

’GharIEE A.‘Eolvertan

JamEs C. Auchinclogs

Frank Thempson, Jr. (Ebte R.)
Florance P. DEVEF _

William Beck Eldnall

Gerdan Canfield

Frank C . Gamers

m1 101K

Frank Backer

,Laster Haltzman

Edna F. Kelly
Franc1s E. Born

Jahn J. Rooney
Frederic Rene Gendert
Alfred E. EEEEEHQEIQ
Gharlaa A. Buckley
Paul A Fine

IV-:..dw1n B Dooley .”
Katherine E. C). St. (”Merge '

J. Eirneat Ehwmton
Egan Par1ziEylor
Eilliam E. Eilliams

JEWEEEHEEEGJd D. Coalay A
J ' ;& MEL-1:]. g. “f.“ g i :l C it?!
C7 17-33:! [can _

OHIO

James G. Polk
Thamas Indlow Ashely ?

‘ MiChaEl Kirwan

Charles A. Vanik

0111110111

Page Balcher
Ed.Edmmndson
Tbm.8tead

 




PENNSIEVAHIA
Benjamin F. Jamss
Paul Dague

George Milton Rhedes
Leon H. Gavin
Franklﬁ. Clark

RObert J. Corbett

Elmer J. Holland
Carroll D. Kearns

RRODE'ISLAND

John Edward Fogarﬁy

SGHTH CAROLINA

‘John in Maﬁillan

SﬁﬁTﬂ DAKOTA

Gaorge 5. McGovarn

TENNESSEE

J. Carlton Loser

TEXAS
W} R. Phage

ETEE

William.A. Dawaon

'William.LeWi$ Prouty

VIRGIHIA
'Watkins My Abbitt

Howard Smith
Joel T. Broyhill

WASHIHGTDN

lwnﬁﬁagnuaon
Thomas J. Pally

WISGORSIN

Banald E. TEWES
gardner R.'ﬁithraw
Clemant J. Zablocki
Eenry'ﬁ. ﬁensa

A335” in Ec‘zwar {3. G ‘ Konski

 




Mrs. Roger Sfevens
50 Easf 77H: Sfreef
New York 2|, N. Y.

Way 31, 1958

Hon. SWW.RW¥burn
‘ThW WWWWKWr W Rooms
The Capitol
WWWhin gtan, B. C.

DWar'Wr. WWWWker,

It WWW W real privilWWW to WW WWIW to WWW yqu and 19
hear yaur fWWcinWthg cWWVWrWWtion, WWW bath.WogWr WWW I
WWrW WWILWWth 1W3t you came ta WWW Eark WWW WOWW yon W111
CGmW WWW cWW Wr this city up W gWin.

I hWVW been trying to fallaw year WiWW WXWWWIW in
Waiting WanWh Wleap WM net tWinxing W32Wut tWW WW3 W work
at night, but it 13 hard whgn We WWny rumorW WrW flying
abeut the humane slaughtWr W111 which I Wm WW WWXiWUW far.
WW gnu WW ;‘0W, 1t WWWWWW the WWWWW 1n FWWruWry WWW may WW Wcteé
on by tWW WenWtW AgriculturW CWWWittWW an JunW faurth. WWW
it is 1W:nW WWld that the LWWdWrWhiW WWW 1 let WW Wfchtive
W111 Wuch WW 8.8. 8E38 WWW 11W camaaniWn 5. L497 be WWWWWW
chWuWW it WWWLW affend JWW1WW WWtWrW, WWW $9 thW W111 must
be WWWWWWW late a new versian of tWW WWWWWWWtW‘ faver1te
Wtudy W111.

This is tWW Rina cf W Wtudy W111 with W time limit equWe
What Rabbi LWwin, thW cWigf QrWWWWax JWWiWh.9WWWant of
effsctiva 13W1W1313Qn, WWWWW anW of the WUWWWW WQCW1 ty
WroWoantW to WWWWWWr Wt thW raant “WWWtW WWWrinWW. Dr.
’Willer cf tWW DWWWIWWWnt of agrﬁcnlturs had WWWW the aama
request WdViWiRg tWWt it WWWIW WW “WmWrtﬂ to suggWWt it. It
is entirely unachWtagle to humanW Wacthiaa.

I eruWW ta leievW tWWt W WWmachtic SenWtW 1W gozng
ta take dictation from the Wig WWcWWrW and their alliWs We
mattar WWW Wkillfully 11 is dinWiWWW. But thWrW 13 We Woubt
that WWQWIW whc want ta Wat thW WIWWW unfairly WW ethers'WrW
werk1ng tWWWIWW this and. '

Fram WanthWr Waurce a report CWWWW tWWt 1f WWW WWWWEW
Wnaulﬁ paﬁa tWW W111 as the Hauae W16, SWérataryzﬁenaan will
recammend W vate, WnW thW Presidet W111 veto it. It 1W WWid
that a study W111 wsulﬂ be chegted 32y the CanfarWWW rathar
than having 19 WtWrt tWW legiWLWtzcn WVWr WWWin WWW? yWW r.

I Warnethy hape that all thWWW ruWWrW Wre wrang. If thW
'3reaiﬁant 13 g31ng ts veto 11, WW Whamld WWVW tn take the
rWswanglbility for Wrousin& thW VQtWIW' Wrath WWW Wet WWWW it
off on Gangreaa, 2 a

With all good wishes WWW mth SiﬂCWYWHWQMIrthén,
4 \2 1 \x

\

$1ncarely, I f

{

 




@112 £511 Baker’s QRnnms
(35111152 nf QRmreamtaﬁbm 33$

ﬁashingfnnﬁw.

June 10, 1958

Dear Christine:

It was good to receive your letter
of May 31, 1958.

I have noted your comments with
reference to the Humane Slaughter Bill.
The Senate Committee has been holding
hearings on this bill recently, but it
is too early to know just what version
the Senate will pass. However, I will
remember the views you have expressed
when it comes before the House again
for consideration.

With every good wish and assuring
you that it was a pleasure to see you and
Roger in New York recently, I am

Mrs. Roger Stevens
50 East 77th Street
New York 21, New York

 




Gimmes}; of the @Hm’teh étateg

James at ilepremntatihes
Washington, 3%. (:13.

Dear Friend:

Thank you for your recent expression in behalf of H.R. 8308,
the humane slaughter bill, which at long last has been passed
by the House. I appreciate your support of this long—overdue
legislation, and I only hope we now can be as successful in
getting Senate approval.

Enclosed is a copy of my floor remarks, in which you may be
interested.

Sincerely yours,

Mew/W

William A. Dawson,.M.C.

WADzeb

P.S. Please accept my apologies for replying to you with a
form letter, but my mail on this subject has been too heavy
to permit individual replies.

 




STATEMENT BY REP; WILLIAM.A. DAWSON IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES FEBRUARY 4, 1958

ON HUMANE SLAUGHTER LEGISLATION

Mr. Speaker:

I am one of the original sponsors of this legislation. May I confess that
I started out as a reluctant sponsor. It is against my political philosophy
generally to favor legislation which compels any individual or business or
industry to do something which should be done voluntarily. It was only after
I had determined through my own independent investigation that--with the exception
of all too few progressive companies-~the meat packing industry was making little
or no progress in this field, only then did I decide humane slaughter legislation
was necessary.

I am happy to report that under the goad of this bill and similar bills,
some progress is now being made. When this measure was first introduced in
January of 1957, the Department of Agriculture could not furnish me with any
estimate of what percentage of our livestock were rendered insensible to pain
by humane methods before being slaughtered. Now, I am informed by the Department,
more than half of all beef slaughtered under Federal meat inspection is stunned
by approved mechanical methods.

This legislation will have no effect upon the scores of packers who already
have adapted their operations to conform with the minimum requirements of humane
decency called for in this bill. This bill is directed towards that segment of
the industry which has done too little; which will continue to do too little
and will do it too late-~or never. Without legislation, I am convinced, cruel,
wantonly cruel practices against millions of animals will continue to be standard
procedure.

I do not intend to go into lengthy descriptions of present methods of

slaughter now followed by most of our packing plants. I do think it is safe to

say that there is not a member of Congress who would condone these methods if

he witnessed them being practiced on one dumb animal and knew that such practices
were unnecessary. I submit that corporate cruelty-~if a ready alternative is
available--is a fit subject for legislative action.

The enactment of this humane slaughter bill will not force an industry into
unexplored territory. Humane slaughter has been compulsory in Switzerland since
1874. England adopted a similar law in 1933. Other nations requiring humane
slaughter are Norway, the Netherlands, Scotland, Ireland, Finland, Sweden, New
Zealand and Denmark. Years of experience in each of these countries has proved

that humans slaughter practes are economically beneficial to the industry.

 




'2222222222222222

We need not go to Europe to verify the feasibility of humane slaughter
practices. Companies in the United States have found that the immobilization of
hogs by carbon dioxide has saved more money in the reduction of damaged meat than
was spent for the installation of the new equipment. Captive bolt pistol stunning
devices to replace the uncertain pole ax are available at $120--an investment
even the most modest of plants can afford.

Why, then, one may ask is this legislation necessary? Why is it being
opposed by the packing industry generally? I can only conclude that the industry
is caught in the inertia of tradition. In this regard, I can only say to the

£4 5!

members of the industry, Recall your fight against the Federal Meat Inspection
Act in the early part of this century." Let the packers reread the arguments

they made to Congress against that law which grew out of public revulsion against

the shoddy, unsanitary conditions that prevailed in a portion of their industry.

We can only hope that by reviewing their attitude then against minimum sanitary
laws--and comparing it with their attitude now against minimum humane laws--they

will profit by experience.

Certainly this industry which contributes so much to our fine standard of
living should be in the vangard of this fight to end needless cruelty. To that
portion of the industry that has undertaken that leadership we owe our respect.
For that portion that will resist to the end, we have this bill.

Before concluding, Mr. Speaker, I would like to make a few personal
observations. Many people, including some members of Congress, seem to think
that there is something humorous about this legislation. It has been suggested
that this legislation be amended to include lobsters, fish and other lower animal
life. Their reasoning seems to be that unless we can abolish all needless pain
and cruelty in one legislative swoop, we should take no action at all. To them,
I can only say, man's struggle towards decency, kindness and compassion has been
made in many little steps but’we have come a long way since the days of Tamerlane
the tyrant. This bill is another step along that path.

In closing, Mr. Speaker, I would like once again to pay tribute to the many
individual citizens with whom I have had the pleasure of working on this legislation.

Opponents of this bill have come to me and characterized these fine people as

“sentimentalists and dreamers.“ To my mind, however, these people belong with

the other so-called sentimentalists and dreamers—~the ones in the past who were
so misguided to believe that child labor could be abolished, or who argued that

madness was a subject for medicine, not mockery. It has been a distinct pleasure

 




I

333333333333333

to work with them for this bill to outlaw mass cruelty to dumb animals--a

cruelty that is indefensible because it need not continue.

I can only agree with them wholeheartedly that the needless suffering

of some 100 million animals per year is a matter of concern for us all.

 




AAAAAA AAlAiAAA AAAAAAAAAAA
AAA‘E’AA‘W “ff‘iﬂ'? AAAAAAAAAAA;
AA 33’3"-..H%q§ Aiwtﬁj’a

AA AA: AA A AA AA:- A AAAAAA AAAAAA AAA AAA AAA:"TI“ AAA-AAA}
Aﬂl AAA AAA AAA AA A AAA '3. A“! AA" AAA AAA AAA’m AA A AAAAA AAA AAA

AAAAA'AAA AAAAAAAAA Ally -?A~AA “mam” “AAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAA AAA . AAA AA A AA AAA
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAA‘AAAAWA “A“ {A 1A AAAAAA AAA “" AAA “AAAAAAAAA A AA
AWAAAA AAAAAA A AAAAAA ~

AA: AA AAA: AAAA AAAA AMAAA AAA AAAAA 1AM“ AAAAAAAAA AAA
“ “Win33; AAAAA AAAAAAAAA AAAAAA

3%“ {9323.

{AAA AAA AA’AAAAIA AAAAA'AA‘

 




EIGHTY-FIFI'H CONGRESS

HAROLD D. COOLEY, N. C., CHAIRMAN
W. R. POAGE, TEX., VICE CHAIRMAN

GEORGE M. GRANT. ALA. WILLIAM S. HILL, COLO. 7 , ' y , _

E. C. GATHINGS. ARK. CHARLES E. HOEVEN. IOWA “use 70: Bpﬂﬁﬁmﬁamhﬁﬁy ; .
JOHN L. MC MILLAN, s. C. SID SIMPSON, ILL.

THOMAS G. ABERNETHY, MISS. PAUL B. DAGUE, PA.

CARLALBERL .AL...A....., m... Qtummittee an Qgritulture

WATKINS M. ABBITT. VA. PAGE BELCHER, OKLA.

JAMES G. POLK, OHIO CLIFFORD G. MCINTIRE, MAINE r

CLARK W. THOMPSON, TEX. WILLIAM R. WILLIAMS, N. Y. wagb Ingtun’ E0 £0
PAUL C. JONES, MO. ROBERT D. HARRISON, NEBR.

JOHN C. WATTS, KY. HENRY ALDOUS DIXON, UTAH

HARLAN HAGEN, CALIF. WINT SMITH, KANS.

LESTER R. JOHNSON, WIS. OTTO KRUEGER, N. DAK.

VICTOR L. ANFUSO, N. Y. CHARLES M. TEAGUE, CALIF.

ROSS BASS, TENN. DONALD E. TEWES, WIS.

MRS. COYA KNUTSON, MINN. ALBERT H. QUIE, MINN.

D. R. (BILLY) MATTHEWS, FLA. E. L. (BOB) BARTLEW' ALASKA
JOHN A. BURNS. HAWAII

RESIDENT COMMISSIONER
A. FERNés-ISERN, PUERTO RICO

MRS. MABEL C. DOWNEY, CLERK
JOHN J. HEIMBURGER, COUNSEL

Mrs. Christine Stevens
Secretary-Treasurer

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue, Room 812

New York 22, N. Y.

My dear Mrs. Stevens:

Your letter of June twentieth which relates
to humane slaughter legislation has been received.

The action taken by the Senate Committee was
indeed a surprise to me. Frankly, I can see no reason
for further delay. I am sure you will recall that the
same effort to delay action was made in our Committee
and was unsuccessful.

The only good thing that I can think of in
connection with the action taken by the Senate is, that
you will in all probability have occasion to visit'Wash—
ington during the Eighty~sixth Congress. I assure you
that you may count on my support of the legislation in
_which you are interested.

With best wishes, I am

Cordially yours,

 




ﬂovembar 11, 1958;

44. 84444 I 40 444
E44449‘34444441444

' 8444.4“, B44144,

44 4444 441434441 44 444 that you *4 ﬁ11 b4 14 ’4414444,

and 44 4-14 14 ““4; 44434 47.1411 f4}? 3444 141.1141 4.4.3.: 411m 41?
14444444 144 444 444444 41443 Q4444 144 444.44444 441441 pram
4444144 4414 4144144. We 44444 34414444 of 444 44444 4uch
bills 41 41 4444 444 4444 444 14 414 1444 44.4444“ 144 444444
'4444414< "4 , 444 444 4111 44444 411.1. I 44 444144144 440
14444 41444414“ 44 444 £44444 441 44414 44 4444 44.44 44443
44 4444 344 any 4114414441 14144444141 41143 344 44444 4144
44'44V4. H444 444 4444 444:144444414413 44144 “444444 4f
, th4 G44414444,f44 444 P444444144_01 0444143 to 4414414"
p44114444 by 444 4444444444 41 14414 in 195?? T44 4444 4441
*14414144144 441'144 44 4444444 4444143 i4-b4gihning 44 be
414414 4444441444 44 1444. ’ ' 1 '

4144 kind 4444444,

514444414,

,844444443~14444444r

 




CHESTER BOWLES

ESSEX. CONNECTICUT

September 16, 1958

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

I was delighted with the news that the Humane
Slaughter Bill was made the law of the land a
few weeks ago. I know how thrilled you must
be at this final triumph after all the work
you did.

I have followed the progress of the Bill from
the sidelines, but I hope that next January

I will be in Congress to help out in any
future battles the AHA may have.

With my warmest regards.

Sincerely,

Chester Bowles

Mrs. Christine Stevens
Society for Animal Protective
Legislation

7h5 Fifth Avenue - Room 812
New York 22, New York

CB:t

Signed in Mr. Bowles' absence.

 




.p,

11931:}. 3 :1 LL}:
333311131121? 0:;
532% 1.”

1:12:35:me

3.111 ”£13313.” €31
tha km :1

grﬁai c1u11 5
W3. ”123”: “32:11:37: {51231131212 1:111:72 2:121:21:

322112131332, 1:312 “1:311: 3311:1211: 12:3? 1'11 321:1”:211
$23 $0 @mnrk121g'walkwamwwwﬁagdg
maﬁa ox :ha'whmia 1222122
Fﬁhufﬂing 23

1‘5 1313253; 32.1 1:;

2-. In ' '1‘ 231-2.: ‘3 ‘1 § .
.115: 12:31:11. 2.1.1.334 ‘-

£113.15?

.3- 31:32:

8‘ : ‘~.<- "J- ”? ‘ ‘ 1'3"," ('2 4'" “.7“, 21512 {w -“;”_e 13‘ "E32" 2’3. :03
but: :1“ '5 : _ <12: 1,1 2-22.314.“ 22:: 1:1 3.1;:

Decamber s, 1958

“:“w lT‘Tﬁ tn 2% yam viii:
“V“: “ﬁhhbﬂ? i3 1:2
, 211a2212n2 1113
3:31:31 1:11:11va
222.311.11.211? Ls." {£13.
2.2.41.2: 1.221;: :11” 1:?“ 2.1.2.. 2: ”
:2” £21,113“: 3a).; {32:31.2 26:12:22.
. 1:22:21»: 132:.“ 2:311:52 1.1112222: “23.12:: ‘23:“‘332‘?
:3: :: 1 152.2” 221;" E12121: ”3;.- 3112 it: "1‘: .1. 32.212
.

2-,!
7
"9‘" m 1"?! a
‘ a) wJH/Dié a

‘ 11M
x‘i Lit’d‘ﬁﬁmkr L§b$

S .
$1.2“: 3212‘» 3.322: 111.121.1112

Secretany-Treasurer

 




CH ESTER BOWLES

ESSEX. CONN ECTICUT

December 5, 1958

Dear Wrs. Stevens:

Many thanks for your letter which arrived
while we were away for a brief rest after
the campaign.

I hope you will continue to send me materim.
on animal protective legislation and that
you will call on me if I can be of help in
Washington. I have not seen the report
issued by the government of India, but both
my wife and I would like very much to read
it. When we get settled in Washington, I
shall definitely look it up.

Roger was a great help during the campaign.
I shall never forget the support of friends
like yourselves.

With my warmest regards.

Si n7€rely , 1pm}
. f a t
Kxjﬁ:gxi3§ ylkmw

Chester Bowles

Hrs. Christine Stevens

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
7MB Fifth Avenue, Room 812

New YOrk 22, N.Y.

CBzed

 




1058

Mr. MULTER. No, I do not know. I
have not inquired into that phase of
the subject at all. I have left that to
the Committee on Agriculture and to the
Department of Agriculture. I have con-
cerned myself with the 'phase of the bill
which some people thought might give
offense to some of our citizens of the
Jewish faith. I am convinced that with
this amendment no one can take offense
at this bill. There should be no—doubt
in anyone’s mind that any member of
the committee or in the House ever in-
tended any offense to them, the bill as
proposed and as amended does not
grant an exemption or an exception for
religious practices. On the contrary, it
afﬁrmatively ﬁnds and declares the fact
that such method is also a humane
method.

Mr. BASS of Tennessee: “Mr. Chair-
manxwill the gentleman yield?

Mr. MULTER. I yield to the gentle-
man from Tennessee. ~

Mr. BASS of Tennessee. This posi-
tion that the gentleman has just stated
as being the position of the leaders and
organizations of the Jewish faith has
changed somewhat since the original bill
’was introduced, has it not? -

Mr. MULTER. Yes. Before the com
mittee their representative was asked to
submit language which would meet with
their approvalg Such language I under-
stand now has not only met with their
approval but. with that of the humane
societies. The gentleman from Texas

[Mr. POAGE], has placed in the RECORD a
letter sent to him showing the approval
by six of these organizations.

Mr. BASS of Tennessee. I would like
to say to the gentleman that I opposed
in the committee the original inclusion
of language which he is saying now has
been approved by the Jewish faith, but
am now ready to accept the version of
the distinguished gentleman from New
York [Mr. MULTER]. '

Mr. MULTER. May I take this last
moment at my disposal to say that we
are most appreciative to every member
of the committee, particularly to the
gentleman from Texas [Mr. POAGE], and
the staff who have worked with him,
and to the majority leader, the gentle-
man from Massachusetts [Mr. MCCOR-
MACK], for their very ﬁne approach to
this matter. Their cooperation has been
in the true American spirit dictated by
our Constitution and our Declaration of
Independence, making certain that we
would not interfere with religious wor-
ship or religious practice in any manner
whatsoever. The entire debate indicates
that no such effort was intended and
the bill as amended will prevent any
such interpretation.

(Mr. ROOSEVELT asked and was given
permission to extend his remarks at this
point in the RECORD.)

Mr. ROOSEVELT. Mr. Chairman, I
am sure that my colleagues are aware
of the considerable attention and con-
cern which has been directed to H. R.
8308 because of the possibility that its
pasSage will represent a threat to the
continuance of the practice of religious
ritual slaughter.

No. 18———-—~10

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —-— HOUSE

I assure you that if I believe that this
measure constituted such a threat, I
would oppose it with all the vigor that
defense of religious freedom demands.
I do not oppose it, however, because I
ﬁrmly believe that, far from presenting
a threat, H. R. 8308 as amended by the
proposal of the gentlemen from New York
[Mr. MULTER and Mr. ANFUSO] will pro-
tect religious slaughter. ~

As the bill reads, and as the intent of
Congress clearly indicates, religious
slaughter is not inhumane, and no such
implication was ever intended. H. R.
8308 does not exempt religious slaugh-
ter, which would imply that the ritual
is actually inhumane but that Congress
will allow it to continue nonetheless.
Instead, the bill speciﬁcally deﬁnes com-
pliance with the policy of the act in two
instances—one being practices per-
formed in conformity with an estab-
lished religious faith. Because there are
two declarations of what is humane, it
does not follow that one of them is an
exception. The section merely makes
doubly sure that ritual slaughter can
never be construed as anything but that
which the bill declares it to be, a hu-
mane practice.

We know that it was the “Jewish re-e
ligion which gave the western civiliza-
tion its. ﬁrstunderstanding of humane
treatment of animals, and it was the
Mosaic code which established the ﬁrst
humane slaughter law. ,

I sincerely hope that these amend-
ments which have been adopted, will
calm all fears about danger to religious
slaughter. . ’

Having removed the basic objections
previously raised, I believe the great ad-
vantages and humane aspects of the bill
make it sound prospective law.

The. CHAIRMAN. The time of the
gentleman from New York has expired.
All time has expired. The Clerk will
read the bill for amendment.

The Clerk read as follows:

Be it enacted, etc., That the Congress ﬁnds
the use of humane methods in the slaughter
of livestock prevents needless suffering; re-
sults in safer and better working conditions
for persons engaged in the slaughtering in-
dustry; brings about improvement of prod-
nets and economies'in slaughtering opera-
tions; and produces other beneﬁts for pro-
ducers, processors, and consumers which
tend to expedite an orderly ﬂow of livestock
and livestock products in interstate and for-
eign commerce. It is therefore declared to
be the policy of the United States that the
slaughtering of livestock and the handling
of livestock in connection with slaughter
shall be carried out only by the most humane
practicable methods.

SEC. 2. No method of slaughter or handling
in connection with slaughter shall be deemed
to comply with such public policy unless,
(a) "in the case of cattle, calves, horses,

-mules, sheep, swine, and other livestock, all

animals are rendered insensible to pain, by a
single blow or gunshot or an electrical. chem-
ical, or other means that is rapid and effec-
tive before being shackled, hoisted, thrown,
cast, or cut, or (b) by slaughtering in con-
formity with the practices and requirements

of any established religious faith which'

practices and requirements are hereby de-
clared to be humane within the meaning of
this act.

1437.

Mr. ANFUSO. Mr. Chairman, I offer
two amendments and I ask unanimous
consent that they be considered en bloc.

The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection
to the request of the gentleman from New
York?

Mr. GROSS. Mr. Chairman, reserv-
ing the right to object, I would like to
hear the amendment read. May we
have the amendment read before the
request is made? ‘

The CHAIRMAN. The amendment
will be read for information.

The Clerk read as follows:

Page 2, line 3, strike out the words
“most” and “practicable.”

And on page ‘2, line 4, strike out all of
section 2 and insert the following:

“SEC. 2. No method of slaughtering or
handling in connection with slaughtering
shall be deemed to Comply with the public
policy of the United States unless it is hu-
mane. Either of the following two methods
of slaughtering and handling are hereby
found to be humane: '

“(a) in the case of cattle, calves, horses,
mules, sheep, swine, and other livestock, all
animals are rendered insensible to pain by a
single blow or gunshot or an. electrical,
chemical or other means that is rapid and
effective, before being shackled, hoisted,
throWn, cast, or cut; or

“(b) by slaughtering in accordance with .
the ritual requirements of the Jewish faith
or any other religious faith that prescribes
a method of slaughter whereby the animal
suffers loss of consciousness by anemia of the
brain caused by the simultaneous and in-
stantaneous severance of the carotid arteries '
with a sharp instrument.”

And insert the following new section at
end of bill: .

“SEC. 6. Nothing in this act shall be con-~
strued to prohibit, abridge, or in any way~
hinder the religious freedom of any person
or group to slaughter and prepare for the
slaughter of livestock in conformity with the
practicesand requirements of his religion."

The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection
to the request of the gentleman from ,
New York [Mr. ANFUSO] that these
amendments be considered en bloc?

There was no objection.

HUMAN SLAUGHTER

Mr. ANFUSO. Mr. Chairman, ﬁrst of
all, I wish to congratulate my esteemed.
colleague, the gentleman from Texas .
[Mr. POAGEl, for bringing out this bill,
which is long overdue. Also I wish to
'congratulate him and the entire com-
mittee for their understanding and the
patience which they have displayed
throughout the hearings. The amend-
ment which I am offering is acceptable
to the gentleman from Texas, I under-
stand, and also to a great majority of
the committee. Let me explain the
amendments. .

Section 2 of the bill under considera-
tion, as presently worded, has aroused
a good deal of concern among our citi-
zens of the Jewish faith, particularly
among Jewish religious leaders. They

‘feel that it would constitute a certain

degree of danger to the religious life
and practices of the Jewish community,
in this country because it would render
virtually impossible the J ewish religious
method of slaughtering animals.

 




 

Humane Slaughter

EXTENSION OF REMARKS

HON. ABRAHAM J.MULTER

OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 1, 1958

Mr. MULTER. Mr. Speaker, in con-
nection with H. R. 8308, which passed
the House and is now awaiting action in
the Senate, I commend to the attention
of our colleagues the following article
by Murray Frank, a member of the staff
of the Honorable VICTOR L. ANFUSO, as
it appeared in the Jewish Frontier, June
1958 issue:

HUMANE SLAUGHTER
(By Murray Frank)

Sharp disunity in the ranks of American
Jewry over the humane slaughter bill, now
awaiting action in the United States Senate,
manifested itself during the recent debate
on the bill in the House of Representatives.
As adopted by the House (by a voice vote
with few dissenting votes), the bill contains #
a section which recognizes shehitah, the
Jewish method of slaughtering animals, as
a humane method.

The bill, including the Anfuso amendment,
was opposed by Orthodox elements, spe-
ciﬁcally by the Union of Orthodox Rabbis.
It was supported by the Rabbinical Assembly
of America and the United Synagogues of
America, the conservative groups, by the
Central Conference of American Rabbis, and
the Union of American Hebrew Congrega-
tions, the reform groups, as well as by such

 




1 7'3'been going on for Several years.

1958'

major Jewish organizations as the American .

Jewish Congress and the American Jewish
Committee.
Thus, only the Orthodox groups fought

.against the bill and are still the only ones

to carry their ﬁght against it to the Senate
’Whether they Will do better in the Senate

remains to be seen, but the struggle put up-

by the Orthodox groups when the bill came
up in the House was ineffective.

too late—a. few
Washington on the eve of the debate and

buttonholed some Members of Congress ,

For another thing, there was no unanimity
in Orthodox ranks; some felt that Ortho—

doxy ought to go along with the amendment _ ,1,

on the ground that it provided sufﬁcient
~ protection to shehitah. An

bers of. Congress. ,Out of 9 Jews in the

House, only 1 spOke up in favor of the Or— '

thodox viewpoint and against the bill, while

1 the others either favored the bill or voiced

no opinion.
After passage in the House, the bill was
referred to the Senate Agriculture Commit-
‘tee,‘which is expected to report it out to
the Senate ﬂoor for debate and a vote prob-‘-
ably inMay or June.
require only the President's signature for
final enactment. As these lines are written,
, Orthodox leadersare busy contacting mem-

bers of the Senate Agriculture Committee in ‘

the hope of holding up action on the bill.
From what this observer learns, the attitude
of the Senators is favorable toward the bill
”and they are inclined to adopt the House
bill.
' Nevertheless, there is a good deal of con-
‘ fusion in the minds of liberal- minded, Jew-
ish- -friendly Senators Who desire to please
the American Jewish community, but who
i are puzzled over the Jewish division on the
" issue. This situation is evident among many
Home Members who failed to understand
’ the reason for the division in Jewish ranks.
.The Congress, it shoixld be noted, is more
than will1ng to go along with the Jewish

, bypoint of view in the matter provided there
' 7 - gis unanimity in JeWish ranks.

Agitation for a humane- slaughter bill has

gg'such bill was introduced in. May 1955, and

Others followed later in both Houses of

“Congress. All of these bills required a de-
. termination by the Secretary of Agriculture

I as to what methods of slaughter— are humane, 1

and they provided that slaughterers use only
.1 humane methods or face criminal penalties.
‘Not much progress was made on any of these
bills in 1955 and 1956 (841th Cong), except
that the Senate passed a bill calling for

study and research of improved methods of

slaughter over a 2- -year period.

When the 85th Congress was convened in
January 1957, at- least 8*h'uman’e slaughter
bills were introuced in the House and several
in the Senate In April 1957, the House Agri-

culture Committee began hearings on these "

bills A delegation representing 22 major
_' Jewish organizations in the United States
' testiﬁed before the committee and presented
a very effective Case for the Jewish viewpoint.
, The spokeSmen were Rabbi Isaac Lewin of

, Yeshiva University and a leader of the Ortho- '

dox rabb'inate, and Dr. Leo Pfeffer, Chief
counsel for the American Jewish Congress.

The 22 organizations in whose name they

spoke included all Orthodox, Conservative,
and Reform rabbinical and lay groups, as
well as the American Jewish Congress, Jew-
ish War Veterans, Jewish Labor Committee,
B’ nai B’ rith, National Community Relations
Advisory Council (representing a number of
national organizations and 36 Jewish com-
munity councils), etc.

The delegation opposed all pending bills on
the ground that they give a completely false
impression of the Jewish kosher method of
slaughtering animals and may become the
basis of restrictions against one of the most

.dom of rel gion.

For one,
thing, _it was poOrly organized and came -'
Orthodox rabbis came to-

interesting ,
situation was the reaction of Jewish Mem—g 71'1"

Approvial there Will '

The ﬁrst —

1 ‘ . c

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD APPENDIX

qimportant precepts of the Jewish faith, thus

emndangerin a. primary civil liberty—«free-
It explained the method
of shehitah, cited references from Jewish

religious works going back to the Scriptures

(and Maimonides, and quoted from many
sources and experts to show that shehitah
' is a humane method. , ‘

The members of the committee were con-
vinced by the Jewish argument and decided
to rewrite the bill. By June, a new bill was

_ prepared encompassing the most essential

and acceptable parts of the eight bills, and
a section was added to the effect that
slaughtering in conformity with the prac-

‘tices and requirements of any established

. ious faith * * * are hereby declared to
humane within the meaning of this act. ”
"is amendment, however, was not accept-

to the Jewish groups They wanted the

sh religion to be speciﬁcally mentioned
1 - , that shehitah be speciﬁcally recognized
as humane The Orthodox groups at ﬁrst
gave the impression that they would be Will-
ing to approve a strong amendment to safe-
guard shehitah.

The revised bill, known as H. R. 8308, was
approved by the House Agricultural Com-
mittee on; July 9, 1957, and placed on the
calendar for House action. The Jewish 0r-
ganizatiors with the consent of the Orthodox

groups now urged the leaders of Congress to

defer action on the bill until the 1958 'ses-

sion 0 that a more acceptable amendment "
.on shehitah could be prepared.

To this
theyi‘readily agreed, but the congressional
lead‘;.'...,__s stated emphatically that a humane
slaughter bill will deﬁnitely be taken up in
new session and that the Jewish groups
11;; ~2,“‘be prepared With their amendment.
:5," the Jewish leaders were given “carte
blanche” to write an amendment satisfac-
tory to the American- Jewish community.
, A new amendment was subsequently
drawn up through the cooperation of Jewish
Congressman ABRAHAM J. MULTER, Dr. Pfeffer,
and others Copies of the new amendment

was circulated among the various Jewish

groups and their approval was in due time
obtained-,1 except for the Orthodox groups.
The latter stated that they fwere opposed.
to any humane slaughter bill or any amend-
ment applying to shehitah because they re-
garded any change in the status quo as a
possible threat to shehitah. At best, the
Orthodox groups were willing to agree to a
bill calling for the appointment of a com-

'mittee to study the matter over the next

few years—but no deﬁnitive aetion now.
'When the new sessi‘on opened in January

, 1958, the amendment was Submitted to the
,‘.leadership of Congress and the Members of
g the House Agriculture Committee,
-‘whom immediately approved it.

all’ of
It was then'
decided that the amendment be introduced
by Congressman VICTOR L. ANFUSO, a non-
Jew and the only member of the Agriculture
Committee from New York. .

The new amendment recognizes 2 meth-
‘ods of slaughtering as humane: 1, where the
animal is “rendered insensible to pain by a
single blow or gunshot or an electrical,
chemical or other means that is rapid and
effective, before being shackled, hoisted,
thrown, cast, or cut; the other, by the
JeWish method of shehitah. It speciﬁcally

"states that slaughtering is humane if it is
“in accordance with the ritual requirements ‘

of the Jewish faith or any other religious
faith that prescribes a method of slaughter
whereby the animal suffers loss of conscious-
ness by anemia of the brain caused by the
simultaneous and instantaneous severance of

the carotid arteries with a sharp instru-

ment. ”
To make doubly sure that the constitu-

' tional rights of religious freedom are not vio-

lated, the amendment added a new section
at the end of the bill Which states: Nothing
in this act shall be construed to prohibit,

abridge, or in any way hinder the religious

freedom of any person or group to slaughter

‘tah.

116103

and prepare for the slaughter of livestock
in conformity with the practices and require-
ments of his religion.” Thus, the amend-
ment was considerably strengthened by the
double expression of the recogniti‘0n of
shehitah as humane and the assurance of
ritual slaughter by all according to their

"religious precepts.

During the debate in the House only one

-voice of opposition was heard, that of Con-

gressman LEONARD FARBSTEIN, who represents
New York’ s East Side. FARBSTEIN read a tele-
gram from the Union of Orthodox Rabbis,
describing itself as “the highest rabbinical
authority in the United States” and stTressing
its opposition to the bill thus: “From histo- '
rical viewpoint American Jewish community
has cause for deep concern over such legis-
lation, for experience demonstrates that it
leads in time to agitation against shehitah
itself. Moreover, except shechitah, the
methods prescribed in the bill as humane'are
highly dubious. This demonstrates that fur--
ther study and research are necessary before
any legislation is proposed.”

This opposition was ineffective as far as ‘
Congress was concerned, because the new
amendments recognizing shehitah as hu-
mane and assuring the continuation of
religious slaughter as a constitutional right
under re 1gious freedom were ignored.

At this point in the debate, Jewish divi-
sion over the issue was at its sharpest. Mr.
FARBSTEIN, after reading the telegram, cited
the example in England Where a humane
slaughter bill was enacted and later another
bill was introduced in Parliament to declare
shehitah illegal. We warned that the same
would happen here: if a change were made.
there would be attempts to. outlaw shehi-
Congressman MULTER—to refute the
arguments presented by FARBSTEIN and the
Orthodox rabbis—cited a letter of January

‘ 29, 1958, by Dr. Pfeﬁ'er to .the House Agricul—

ture Committee, stating that the new
amendments recognizing shehitah as hu-
mane were acceptable to the Conservative
and Reform groups and the American Jew-
ish Congress. “With this understanding,”
Wrote .Dr. Pfeffer,,“I am authorized by the
organization listed above to inform, you that
these organizations and their membership
have no opposition to H. R. 8308, as
amended.” .

Shortly after approval of the bill in the
House, the Union of Orthodox Rabbis issued
a statement protesting against the Jewish
organizations which'withdrew their opposi—
tion to the bill, accusing them of having en-
dangered the future of shehitah by their
action. The Jewish groups favoring the bill,
however, maintained -that the amendment
was a strong assurance for shehitah and
warned that if the Orthodox elements suc-
ceeded in defeating the bill in the Senate
there would exist a greater dangerthat a.
new bill would be adopted by Congress
eventually which would not contain the
present safeguards for shehitah.

Thus, the controversy continues in Jew-
ish circles. It has been quite a long time
since the American Jewish community has
been so divided over a religious issue as it is
now over the question of'shehitah and the
humane slaughter bill.

 

" W

‘ Columbia 119mm 11mg ‘5 . I
1868 001mm Rd W 81111:

 




H 0 use of Representatives

The House met at 12 o’clock noon.

The Chaplain, Rev. Bernard Braskamp,
D. D., offered the following prayer:

Ephesians 3: 16: That ye may be
strengthened with might by His spirit
in the inner man.

Almighty God, Thou art always stand-
ing at the door of our hearts waiting to be
welcomed and wanting to be known and
trusted. ,

Make us sensitive and responsive to the
promptings of Thy spirit, seeking to
transform us from what we are to what
we ought to be.

May we always be eager to yield our-
selves to Thy goodness for our littleness
needs Thy greatness and our weakness
needs Thy strength. -

Grant that nothing may eclipse our
faith and obscure our hope as we con-
tinue to pray and labor for the peace of
the world.

Hear us in Christ’ s name. Amen.

 

THE JOURNAL

The Journal of the proceedings of yes-
terday was read and approved.

 

MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States was communi-

cated to the House by Mr. Ratchford,
one of his secretaries.

 

MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE

A message from the Senate, by Mr.
McGown, one of its clerks, announced
that the Senate had passed, with amend-
ments in 'which the concurrence of the

House is requested, a bill of the House of ‘

the following title:

H. R. 10146. An act making supplemental
appropriations for the Department of De-
fense for the ﬁscal year ending June 30, 1958,
and for other purposes.

The message also announced that the
Senate insists upon its amendments “to
the foregoing bill, requests a conference
with the House on thedisagreeing votes
of the two Houses thereon, and appoints
Mr. HAYDEN, Mr. RUSSELL, Mr; CHAVEZ,
Mr. ELLENDER, Mr. BYRD, Mr. BRIDGES,
Mr. SALTONSTALL, and Mr. YOUNG to be
the conferees on the part of the Senate.

 

REFUNDING GOVERNMENT DEBT AT
HIGH INTEREST RATES

(Mr. VANIK asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1 min-
ute and to 1evise and extend his re-
marks.)

Mr. VANIK. Mr. Speaker, in yester-
day’s Washington newspapers an ad-
vertisement caught my attention adver-
tising the refunding of $16,785,000,000 in

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1958

United States Treasury issues. In ac-
cordance with this advertisement cer-
tain new issues were advertised in ex-
change for outstanding issues matur-
ing within the next '75 days.

One‘ of ,the extraordinary features
about the new issue is that bonds can
be acquired, paying a guaranteed 31/2
percent interest rate until February 15,
1990, 32 years from now.

I am fully aware of two desperate
problems faced by the Treasury De-
partment: First, in securing the neces-
sary funds for the operation of the

.Government, and second, the necessity

for avoiding short-term refunding of
national indebtedness. However, it is
extremely difficult for me to compre-

hen’d the ﬁscal wisdom of our Govern-s

ment and its debt managers who per-
sisted in short-term borrowing during
the past several years when interest
rates were steadily rising upward and
now undertaking a long-term offering
for a period of 32 years at a 31/2 percent
rate at the very time when every indi-
cation points to decreasing interest
rates in the immediate future.

If this offering could be delayed for
90 or 180 days, it is extremely possible
that one-half of 1 percent might be
saved on the interest rate with a possible
net savings to the American people of
almost $21/2 billion. A policy of long-
range high-interest offering at a time
when lower interest rates are in clear
prospect indicates a national ﬁscal pol-
icy designed for and perhaps by the
banking and investment interests of
America rather than the guardians of
Ame1 ican tax dolla1s.'

There seems eveiy reason to believe
that public policy would be better served
if this tremendous long-range high-
interest offering could be deferred for a
more prudent period of lowe1 and more
attractive interest 1ates.

 

HARRY HEYDENBURG, REPORTER

(Mr. O’HARA of Illinois asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)

Mr. O’HARA of Illinois. .Mr. Speaker,
in the district court of the United States
in Chicago the distinguished jurists in
their robes sat en banc, the United
States marshal brought before them in
handcuffs, the defendant, Harry E. Hey-
denburg, charged with the grievous
crime of desertion from the Federal
building pressroom, the evidence was
heard and a verdict of guilty promptly
rendered, whereupon District Judge
Phillip Sullivan sentenced the defendant
to accept the gifts that a host of, Harry
Heydenburg’s friends had ready with
which to shower a great newspaper re-

porter on his retirement. It was a cere-
mony in appreciation of and affection
for one of the journalistic greats, a
newsman who for more than 40 years
had covered the beat of the Federal
courts’ in Chicago. Harry Heydenburg
got his ﬁrst job as a reporter on a
metropolitan daily in 1903. He Was as- ,
signed to the Federal pressroom in
1916 and remained there until his re-
tirement in January of 1958. From 1924
to 1958, over three—score years, he was
on the staff of the Chicago American.
He never made an enemy. 'He was re-
spected andbeloved by several genera-
tions of judges, court officials, and law-
yers. He set the pace and the pattern
for topnotch reporting.

My colleagues join me, I am sure, in
noting the retirement of a great neWs-
man and in wishing him rich content-
ment in the years ahead. It is to be
hoped that in his retirement he will ﬁnd
the time to write the story of his 41
years covering the beat in the old Fed-
eral building in Chicago. Many things

.have happened in 4 decades in that

building. There have been many famous

trials, many picturesque personalities of . I

which Judge Landis‘was but one, many
dramatic and historic scenes. Harry
Heydenburg covered them all. His story
of it all would be a best seller.

 

(Mrs. ROGERS of Massachusetts
asked and was given permission to ex-
tend he1 rema1ks at this point in the
RECORD and to include extraneous
mattei.) “

[Mrs ROGERS of Massachusetts’ re-
marks will appear hereafte1 in the
Appendix]

 

[M12 KEATING’ s remarks will appear
hereafte1 in the’Appendix. ]

 

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
SURGEON GENERAL OF THE PUB-
LIC HEALTH SERVICE—MESSAGE
FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 324)

The SPEAKER laid before the House
the following message from the Presi-
dent of the United States, which was
read and, together with the accompany-
ing papers, referred to the Committee on
Interstate and Fo1eign Commerce and
ordered to be p1 mted

To the Congress of the United States:
Under the provisions of title VII of
the Public Health Service Act, as
amended by Public Law 835, 84th Con-
gress, I transmit herewith for the infor-
mation of the Congress the second an-
nual report of the Surgeon General of
the Public Health Service summarizing

1427

 




1428

. the activities of the health research fa-
cilities program.
. DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER.
THE WHITE HOUSE, February 4, 1958.

 

SEVENTH SEMIANNUAL REPORT ON
ACTIVITIES CARRIED ON UNDER
PUBLIC LAW 480, 83D CONGRESS——
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC.
NO. 323)

The SPEAKER laid before the House
. the following message from the President
of the United States, which was read
and, together with the accompanying pa-
pers, referred to the Committee on Agri-
culture and ordered to be printed:

To the Congress of the United States:

I am transmitting herewith the
seventh semiannual report on activities
carried on under Public Law 480, 83d
Congress, as amended, outlining opera-
tions under the act during the period
July 1 through December 31, 1957.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER.

THE WHITE HOUSE, February 4, 1958.

 

CALENDAR WEDNESDAY

Mr. MCCORMACK. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that the busi—
ness in order on» Calendar Wednesday of
next week be dispensed with.

The SPEAKER. Is there objection to
the request of the gentleman from
Massachusetts?

There was no objection.

 

" HUMANE SLAUGHTER OF
LIVESTOCK

Mr. SMITH‘of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
. by direction of the Committee on Rules,
I call up House Resolution 3'76 and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows: "
Resolved, That upon the adoption of this
resolution it shall be in order to move that
the House resolve itself into the Committee
of‘ the Whole House on the State of the
Union for the~ consideration of the bill
(H. R. 8308) to establish the use of humane
methods of slaughter of livestock as a policy
of the United States, and for other purposes.
After general debate, which shall be con-
ﬁned to the bill and continue not to exceed
1 hour, to be equally divided and controlled
by the chairman and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on Agriculture, the
bill shall be read for amendment under the
5-minute rule. At the conclusion of the
consideration of the bill for amendment,
the Committee shall rise and report the bill
to the House with such amendments as may
have been adopted, and the previous ques-
tion shall be considered as ordered on the
bill and amendments thereto to ﬁnal passage
'without intervening motion except one mo-
tion to recommit.

Mr. SMITH of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 30 minutes to the gentleman from
Illinois [Mr. ALLEN] and to myself such
time as I may require. .

Mr. Speaker, I have had no requests
for time for debate on the rule. I know
of no opposition to the rule, but I would
like to make a brief statement if the
gentleman will consume such time as he
may desire. ‘9. '

.. handling of

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE

Mr. ALLEN of Illinois. Mr. Speaker,
I have no objection to the rule.

(Mr. SMITH of Virginia asked and
was given permission to revise and ex-
tend his remarks.)

Mr. SMITH of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
House Resolution 376'makes in order the

"consideration of H. R. 8308, the humane

slaughter bill. The resolution provides

for an open rule and 1 hour of general.

debate.

, The bill establishes a national policy
in connection with the slaughter and
livestock for slaughter.
Certain methods which would comply
with the public policy are listed in the
bill, but it does provide that slaughtering
in accordance with the practices and re-
quirements of any established religious
faith are to be considered in conformity
with the public policy. ‘
. The Secretary of Agriculture is au-
thorized to conduct research and inves-
tigation to determine the most humane,
practicable methods of slaughter. He is
also authorized to establish a 12-man
advisory committee to make recommen-
dations in connection with the study. ,

After December 31, 1959, the Federal
Government will buy no livestock prod-
ucts which have not been slaughtered
by the humane methods determined by
the Secretary of Agriculture, and such
products shall- be labeled as having been
slaughtered by these humane methods.
There is no other penalty attached to
the bill. The bill merely seeks to pro-r
mote practical methods of humane
slaughter of animals. It is a measure
with large public support. It is a mod-
erate bill and ought to be enacted. I
hope that the rule may be adopted and
the bill passed.

Mr. Speaker, I move the previous

question.

The previous question was ordered.

The resolution was agreed to.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the
table.

 

AMENDING TARIFF ACT OF 1930 REL;
ATIVE To IMPORT DUTIES 0N
CERTAIN COARSE WOOL

Mr. SMITH of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
by direction of the Committee on Rules,
I call up House Resolution 460 and ask
for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows: -

Resolved, That upon the adoption of this
resolution it shall be in order to move that
the House resolve itself into the Committee
of the Whole House on the State of the Union
for the consideration of the bill (H. R. 2151)
to amend certain provisions of the Tariff Act
of 1930 relative to import duties on certain
coarse wool, and all points of order against
said bill are hereby waived. That after gen-
eral debate, which shall be conﬁned to the
bill, and shall continue not to exceed 2 hours,
to be equally divided and controlled by the
chairman and ranking minority member of
the Committee 011 Ways and Means, the bill
shall be considered as having been read for
amendment. No amendment shall be in
order to said bill except amendments offered
by direction of the Committee on Ways and
Means, and said amendments shall be in
order, any rule of the House to the contrary
notwithstanding. Amendments offered by
direction of the Committee On Ways and

February 4

Means may be offered to any section of the
bill at the conclusion of the general debate,
but said amendments shall not be subject
to amendment_ At the conclusion of the
consideration of the bill for amendment, the
Committee shall rise and report the bill to
the House with such amendments as may
have been adopted, and the previous ques-
tion shall be considered as ordered on the
bill and amendments thereto to ﬁnal passage
without intervening motion, except one mo-
tion to recommit.

Mr. SMITH of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 30 minutes to the gentleman from ~
Illinois [Mr. ALLEN], and to myself such
time as I may require.

Mr. .Speaker, I have no requests for
time on this side. .

Mr. ALLEN of Illinois. Mr. Speaker,
I reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. SMITH of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I move the previous question. -

The previous question was ordered.

The resolution was agreed to.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the
table. ' -

 

_ HUMANE SLAUGHTER OF LIVE-
STOCK

.Mr. POAGE. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House resolve itself into the
Committee of the Whole House on the
State of the. Union for the consideration
of the bill (H. R. 8308) to establish the
use of humane methods of slaughter of
livestock as a policy of the United States,
and for other purposes.

The motion was agreed to.

Accordingly the House resolved itself ‘
into the Committee ofthe Whole House
on the State of the Unionfor the consid-
eration of the bill H. R. 8308, with Mr.
HERLONG in the chair.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

By unanimous consent, the first read—
ing of the bill was dispensed with.

Mr. POAGE. Mr. Chairman, I yield . '

myself 25 minutes.

_ Mr. Chairman, the need for humane
slaughter legislation has been quite evi-
dent for many years. While the Amer—
ican meatpacking industry has long held
a deserved reputation as one of the most
efficient in the world—most of its mem-
bers had, up until a few months ago,
done practically nothing to meet the re—
quirements of human kindness and even
decency in the slaughtering of animals.
While practically every other packing—
house operation had been mechanized
and modernized cattle and hogs were
stillkilled exactly as they were when as
a boy of 10 I ﬁrst visited the plants at
Fort Worth. Possibly the companies
needed the spur of competition in this
ﬁeld.

True there have been a few outstand-
ing examples “of progress. George Hor- _
mel & 00., one of the great hog packers,
had devised and installed a modern and
humane hog slaughtering practice in
their new plant at Norfolk, Nebr., as it
Was constructed. They found that it ac-
tually saved money through the elimina—
tion of losses of valuable meat from
bruises and broken bones. They later
installed similar facilities in all of their
plants. Other hog packers have fol-
lowed suit, but I believe I am correct

 




1958

when I say-—at least as far as I know——
none of the so- -called big fou1"packeis
have as yet adopted simila1 methods for
hogs.

They still kill hogs by bleeding them
to death on the gruesome wheel—an in-
strument of torture to which live con-
scious hogs are shackled in an endless
line with a dozen or more being lifted
some 12 or 15 feet into the air to slowly
and relentlessly move through possibly
50 feet of space where they come even
with a sticker. A sticker, my colleagues,
is a man who stands‘on a bloody pedestal
_ with a knife—sharp at the beginning of
the day but certainly on many occasions
in need of grinding—with which he sticks
the jugular vein of the, hog. He does not
kill the hog. He is not there to kill the
animal. The hog—or lamb and in some
packing houses the calf—dies from the
loss of blood as it is carried eve1 onwa1d
by the inex01 able movement of the end-
less chain to which it is attached by a
steel chain around one hind leg. If the
animal is a hog it is shortly dropped into
a vat of boiling water. In most cases it
‘ has lost consciousness but numerous ex—
ceptions are reported.

Your committee believes that more
humane methods should be employed.

At least two of the largest paCke1s
have, since this bill was favorably 1e-
ported by the Agriculture Committee,

made a very far-reaching change for the.

better in their methods of slaughtering
cattle. First Swift & Co. and then
Armour & Co. have turned from the age-
,old system of knocking cattle. In the
past all cattle were pushed into chutes

and knocked in the head by men armed

with sledge hammers. These knockers
became quite expert and in the great
majority of cases they were able to kill
an animal with .one blow—but they
missed now and then. ‘In fact, some-
times they knocked off horns or knocked
out eyes. Most—but not all—packing
houses killed cattle, especially calves—if
they were not killed on the wheel—8 or
.10 deep. If the animals ﬁrst knocked
down were not killed, and sometimes
they were not, they struggled to ext1 act
themselves from the mass of bodies on
top of them.

The small Sitz Packing Plant at St.
Joseph, M0,, was one of the early pack-
ers to abandon this practice. They used
. the captive bolt pistol. Members, of our

committee visited the plant and used the
pistol. It is not perfect but used in con-
nection with a series of electric lights
which tend to quiet the cattle in a small
'pen there is very little margin for» error.

Many other plants are now using the
captive bolt pistol. It costs about $200
"and the shells cost about one-half a cent
per animal. It can hardly be said to im~
pose an unbearable economic burden on
the packers.

The two largest packers have recently
equipped themselves with an improve-
ment of this weapon in the form of the
Remington Stunner—produced by the
Remington Arms Co. It is said to be
even more» efﬁcient than the pistol.
There are also pneumatic devices on the
market. Any slaughter house can pro-
vide for the humane slaughtering of cat'-

No. 18—--——9

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —- HOUSE

tle without any considerable capital
investment.

As the American Meat Institute very
recently stated in a joint statement with
the American Humane Association:

The problem in connection with its Use
on hogs and sheep and lambs is primarily
one of restraining the animals while apply-
ing the stunner.

They add:

We are convinced, however, ~that time,
patience, and continuous investigations will
lead eventually to the correct answers.

The majority of the Committee on
Agriculture'also believe that the problem
but needs the same kind of consideration
which has been given to all of the com-
petitive technical problems of the
packers

Our committee has made an on the
spot investigation of packing house kill-
ing practices. It was not a pleasing duty.
‘We recognize that the slaughter of living
animals is never a pleasant task, We
found that the packers have great difﬁ-
culty securing and retaining men to do
the cruel and dirty work of kn‘ocking
and sticking. Most workers take these
jobs because of economic necessity and
quit them as soon. as they can. Un-
fortunately, the few who seem to want

to stay with this work are generally

either without any kindly feeling of com-
passion for the suffering of God’s dumb

creatures or are of such low intellect,

themselves that they are immune to any
pain except their own. This situation
is not the fault of the packers but it is

:most unfortunate—and it does exist.

Even before our committee conducted

its investigations numerous Members of

Congress recognized the situation and
introduced bills intended to deal with
the evil. I wish that I could name all
those who introduced bills. Unfortu—
nately, I have no accurate list. I would,

however, call especial attention to the'
devoted efforts of our colleague, the

gentle lady from Michigan, Mrs. MAR-
THA GRIFFITHS, who has pushed for a
solution of this problem ever since she
has been in Congress. Her work and
her attitude have always been helpful
and constructive.

Our colleague the gentleman from

.Utah [Mr. DAWSON] has been most in-
.terested, as have the gentlemen from

California [Mr. MILLER and Mr. HIE-
STAND], the gentleman from South Caro-
lina [Mr. MCMILLAN], the gentleman

.from Tennessee [Mr. LOSER], the gentle-

and
[Mr.

man from Maryland [Mr. HYDE],
the gentleman from Michigan
BROOMFIELD] .

Almost a full year ago, our committee
held hearings. A great number of wit-‘
nesses were heard. Most of them in

favor of legislation—but we also heard
the representatives of the packers and'

others who raised questions.

The hearings resulted in a completely
new approach to the problem. As chair-

[man of the'Subcommittee on Livestock

and Feed Grains I introduced a bill, very
similar to the perfected measure we have
before us. The previous bills had all
sought to . make other than humane
slaughtering methods punishable as
criminal acts. 'TheCommittee bill con—

1429

tains no criminal penalties. Its only
sanction lies in the provision that the
United States Government will not here-
after buy meat from any processor who
uses other than humane methods in
slaughtering.

The bill will not therefore apply to the
local butcher who does not seek a govern-
ment contract. We realize that the ex-
ception is large, but we felt that we
should better err on the side of liability.
We do not want to impose any kind
of economic burden on either the small
packer or on the producer of meat. Nor
did‘we feel that the Federal Government
should attempt to prescribe rules for
purely local business activities. We did,
however, feel that if the Government was
going to spend tax money it should
spend it with those packers who fol-
lowed a reasonably enlightened code of
slaughte1ing practices.

In the beginning opposition came f1 om
three sources. First the packe1s ob-
jected. They said it would add materi-
ally to their costs. We have, however,
seen that one of the largest hog packers
and the two 1a1 gest cattle packers have
volunta1 11y adopted humane p1 act1ces
the ﬁrst as to hogs—the other two as
to cattle. In the face of this it seems ,
clear that there is little real validity to
their protests and just last week you
doubtless received the publication of the
American Meat Institute to which I re— ‘
ferred. This seems to make it quite
clear that there is in fact no realeco-
nomic barrier; Surely there is none in
the big plants and the small plants are
for practical purposes all exempt—un-
less they are bidding on government con-

tracts.

The second group of objections come
from livestock producers who had been

told that they would have to absorb

some substantially increased costs. ,No
farmer wants to absorb extra costs.
Very few indeed could do so. I don’t
want to impose any burden on live-
stock producers. I am one myself. I

have been in the cow business, in a very

small way, all my life and my father
before me and his father before him.
No, I would not knowingly/hurt the live-
stock producers but on the other hand
I know that that livestock man, ifhe is

the kind of man of whom we are so

proud, is deeply interested in knowing
that the cow he raised from a calf is
not going to be needlessly and brutally
si1bjected to any kind of mistreatment,
and from the testimony of the packers
themselves, it seems clear that there is

'not going to be any extra costs to pass

back. Hormel’s several years of experi-
ence has resulted in a saving—not a
cost.

The third group/ of objections came '
from an unexpected source. We had

recognized that some of our people hold,

religious convictions in regard to the
method of slaughtering animals for food.
The original committee bill had sought

‘to deal with this by simply excepting the -~

Jewish ritualistic method of Slaughter.
It was, however, pointed out, quite fair-
1y, I thought, that any exception might
be construed as a brand [of evil on a.
practice which we condemned but were
willing to tole1 ate

.

 




1430

The committee recognized and I rec-
ognize that ritualistic slaughtering is
not simply something that we should
condone in behalf of religious freedom—-
although I' would always feel that we

should be extremely careful not to in- -

terfere with any citizens’ religious be-
liefs, but ritualistic slaughtering is as I
see it, when actually carried out in com-
pliance with the Mosaic law'one of the
most humane methods yet devised. The
bill, therefore, was changed to recog-
nize ritualistic slaughtering as of itself
humane. ,

It will, however, be understood that on
matters of this kind there are naturally
going to be many varieties and degrees
of feeling. There were those who felt
that even as reported by the committee
the bill did not give quite the degree of
recognition or dignity which should , be
accorded the sincere belief of some citi-
zens. The sponsors of the bill tried to
work out the language last summer but
found that it was going to take time to
do this.

At that time and at all times since we
have had the splendid cooperation of
the distinguished majority leader, the
gentleman from Massachusetts, and of
the distinguished gentleman from New
York [Mr. MULTER]. They and others
have done everything possible to achieve
unanimity. We have also had the co-

operation of many outside agencies,

groups, and individuals.

At-last we are able to present lan-
guage, which will be offered as an
. amendment with the approval of a ma-
jority of the Agriculture Committee
' which is acceptable to the great major-
ity Of those who have heretofore opposed
this bill on religious grounds.

At this point, Mr. Chairman, I would
like to read into the RECORD a letter
dated January 29, 1958, from Hon. Leo
Pfeffer, of New York City. The letter is
as follows: .

DEAR CONGRESSMAN POAGE: I am writing
this letter on behalf of the Rabbinical As-
sembly ’of America and the United Syna-
gogue of America (representing respectively
. the conservative rabbinate and conservative
congregations), the Central Conference of
American Rab-bis and the Union of American
Hebrew Congregations (representing the Re-
form rabbinate and Reform congregations),
and the American Jewish Congress.

. We understand that your bill H. R. 8308
regarding humane slaughtering of animals
has been or will be amended as follows:

In the enactment section on page 2, line
3, the words “the most” and “practicable”
Will be eliminated. "

For the present section 2 the following
will be substituted:

“SEC. 2. No method of slaughtering or
handling in connection with slaughtering
shall_be deemed to comply with the public
policy of the United States unless it is hu-
mane. Either of the following two methods
of slaughtering and handling
found to be humane:

“(a) In the case of cattle, calves, horses,‘

mules, sheep, swine,_ or other livestock, all
animals are rendered insensible to pain by a.
single blow or gunshot or an electrical,
chemical, or other means that is rapid and
effective, before being shackled, hoisted,
thrown, cast, Or cut; or - ~
“(b) By slaughtering in accordance with
the ritual requirements of the Jewish faith
or any other religious faith that prescribes
a method of slaughter whereby the animal
suffers loss of consciousness by anemia of

is hereby -

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE

the brain caused by the simultaneous and
instantaneous severance of the carotid arc
teries with a sharp instrument.”

In addition, a new section 6 will be added
to read as follows: .

“Nothing in this act shall be construed to
prohibit, abridge, or in any way hinder the
religious freedom' of any person or group to
slaughter and prepare for the slaughter of
livestock in conformity with the practices
and requirements of his religion.”

.We understand that these amendments
are based upon the convincing scientiﬁc tes-
timony presented before the respective..com-
mittees Of both the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate to the effect that the
Jewish method of slaughter described in the
proposed amendment is a human method
meeting the standards of your bill.

We understand further that while the bill
as amended would empower the Department
of Agriculture to restrict or prohibit shack-

ling or hoisting of conscious animals in con- .

nection with slaughtering according to the
ritual requirements of the Jewish faith, it
.does not restrict or prohibit, nor does it au-
thorize the Department of Agriculture to
restrict or prohibit the use Of the Weinberg
or revolving pen, as is used in Great Britain,
and that such ’use of the Weinberg pen is a
humane method of preparing the animal for
slaughter.

With this understanding I am authorized

by the organizations listed above to inform‘

you that these organizations and their
membership have no opposition to H. R. 8308,
as so amended.

You. are authorized to read this letter into
the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD and make such
further use of it as you deem appropriate.
You are authorized, further to inform all
interested persons that the statement con-
taining my signature now being circulated
by the Union Of Orthodox Rabbis in opposi-
tion to H. R. 8308 is based upon that bill be-
fore the amendments set forth in this letter,
and that continued circulation of the state-
ment by the Union of Orthodox Rabbis with
my signature appended thereto is without
my consent or approval.

Cordially,
LEO PFEFFER.

I now want, Mr. Chairman, to state
for the RECORD that I agree with Mr.
Pfef‘fer on his interpretation of the
meaning of the proposed amendments
and particularly to point out that the
proposed amendments are not intended
to deny the Department of Agriculture
the right and power to prohibit any
form of shackling and hoisting of con-
scious animals, it is not, however, in-
tended to and does not’give the Depart-
ment of Agriculture any right or power
to restrict or prevent the use of the

: Weinberg or revolving _ pen.

I want to also state that it is our puré
pose to offer the.amendments to which
Mr. P-feffer referred in the language
quoted. The amendments will actually
be offered by our colleague the gentle-
man from New York [Mr. ANFUSO], a
member of the Agriculture Committee.

In view of all of these facts, Mr.
Chairman, I trust that this bill may have
the overwhelming support of this House.

Mr. HOFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield? ‘

Mr. POAGE. ' I now yield to the gentle-
man. : ~ -

”Mr. HOFFMAN. Do I understand that
the objections of the Union of Orthodox
Rabbis have been removed by what the
gentleman has said? ,

Mr. POAGE. No; I do not understand
that the Union of Orthodox Rabbis

February I;

agreed to it. I do understand that all
of these other groups, the Rabbinical
Assembly of America, the United Syna-
gogue of America representing collec-
tively the conservative rabbis and the
conservative congregations, the Ameri-
can rabbis, and the Union of American
Hebrew Congregations, and the. Ameri-
can Jewish Congress—I understand that
their objections have all been removed.

Mr. HOFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield? .

Mr. POAGE. I yield.

Mr. HOFFMAN. Will the gentleman
tell us how they were removed?

Mr. POAGE. By the amendments I
have just mentioned. '

Mr. HOFFMAN. What do they do?

Mr. POAGE. They restate the right of
any group to practice any religious belief
they want. '

Mr. HOFFMAN. Wait a minute; how
do the Jewish people kill a steer?

Mr. POAGE. By following

Mr. HOFFMAN. I know, but how do
they do it? ‘ ‘

Mr. POAGE. I am trying to tell the
gentleman, by following the ritualistic
requirements of the Jewish faith which
prescribes a method of slaughter where-
by the animal suffers loss of conscious-
ness by anemia of the brain caused by
the simultaneous and instantaneous
severance of the cardiac arteries.

Mr. HOFFMAN. That is simply cut-
ting their throat, slitting their throat,
is it not? ’ '

Mr. POAGE. No.

Mr. HOFFMAN. Cutting the. throat.
Do they Suffer any less because a mem-
ber of the Jewish faith does it?

Mr. POAGE. Yes, because the Jewish
method results in immediate death.

Mr. HOFFMAN. Immediate death.

Mr. POAGE. Yes. It brings on im-

,. mediate death.

1

The present method in most cases is
to stick the jugular vein and let the
animal bleed to death. The Jewish rit-
ualistic method cuts the cardiac arteries.
cuts the nerve and causes instant death.

Mr. HOFFMAN. Oh, you have
brought the nerve in there now.

Mr. POAGE. You cannot do it any
other way; there is no practical way to
sever the cardiac arteries without sever-
ing the nerve. Of Course, it could be
done but as a practical matter when the
throat is cut so are the nerves.

Mr. HOFFMAN. How is that any dif-
ferent than killing a chicken by pushing
a knife blade up its mouth and into
its brain?

Mr. POAGE.. I do not know about
that. This bill does not apply to
chickens. , ' ' ' ‘

Mr. HOFFMAN. It applies to domes-
tic animals, does it not?

Mr. POAGE. Yes; it applies to do-
mestic animals but not to poultry. The
bill carefully deﬁnes its applications,
and it applies to cattle, hogs, sheep,
mules, horses

Mr. HOFFMAN. Livestock?

' Mr. POAGE. But not to poultry.

Mr. HOFFMAN. Oh, yes; you will
ﬁnd that on page 4, line 6.

Mr. POAGE. Will the gentleman
read the reference to chickens?

Mr. HOFFMAN. Each species of live-
stock.

 




1958

Mr. POAGE.
stock above referred to.”

Mr. HOFFMAN. Are not chickens
livestock?

Mr.
stock under the terms of this bill.

Mr. HOFFMAN. The gentleman just
does not know what he is talking about.

The courts have held time and time.

again that chickens are livestock.

Mr. POAGE. I would like to read the
section the gentleman has referred to.
The gentleman read one part of it. I
think it is only fair to read the whole
thing:

No method of slaughter or handling in
connection with slaughter shall be deemed
to comply with such public policy unless
in the case of cattle, calves, horses, mules,
sheep, swine, and other livestock.

Mr. HOFFMAN. Yes.
Mr. POAGE. Other livestock.
‘Mr. HOFFMAN. Chickens come un—
der “other livestock.”
Mr. POAGE. I must insist the gen—
tleman 1s mistaken.

Mr. HOFFMAN. As a matter of fact

the bill itself refers to chickens; and I
refer the gentleman to line 13, page 5,
where the poultry industry is speciﬁcally
mentioned.

Mr. POAGE. Because we place one
member representing the poultry indus—

try on the advisory committee thinking-

that we should have a member repre-
senting the poultry industry.
Mr. HOFFMAN.
ﬁsh on there too? .
Mr. POAGE. Because we did not

think there would ever be any thought

of its applying to ﬁsh, but there had been
consideration of poultry.

Mr. ROOSEVELT. Mr.
will the gentleman yield?

Mr. POAGE. I yield to the gentle-
man from California.

Mr. ROOSEVELT. ' Would the gentle-
man be able to tell us whether the Union
of Orthodox Jewish Congregation has
passed upon this new amendmentwhich
will be submitted to the House?

Mr. POAGE. The gentleman asks
about a particular group. There are
many of these groups. As far as I know,
there is no group, except the Union
of Orthodox Rabbis, that has not agreed
to these amendments. I may be wrong,
but I know of no other group that is not
in favor of theSe amendments.

Mr. MULTER. Mr. C'hai1man, will
the gentleman yield?

Mr. POAGE. I yield to the gentleman
from New York. ‘

Mr. MULTER. Let us make this crys-
tal clear. While the Rabbinical Council
,of America, which is the national group
of Orthodox Rabbis, has spoken out as
an organization, that organization does
‘not speak for all of its members. All the
Orthodox Rabbis do not take the same
position as the Rabbinical Council of
America. The Rabbinical Assembly Of
America and the Hebrew Congregation,
which is the reform group, are in favor
of and support this measure, as is indi-
cated by the letter the gentleman put
in the RECORD. Those groups, including

Chairman,

the American Jewish Committee and the '

American Jewish Congress, agreewith
the amendment as the gentleman has it

and they say it makes this a good bill. _

“Each species of live-O

POAGE Chickens me not live-'

Why did you not put

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —-— HOUSE

Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, it has quite often been
said that legislation is the result Of pub-
lic Opinion. If there ever was a bill which
is the result of public Opinion, it is H. R.
8308, now being considered by the com-
mittee.

The Committee on AgriCulture, partic-
ularly the subcommittee on livestock and
feed grains, has received‘ more mail in
reference to this particular bill than on
any subject which has ever been pre-‘
sented to the Committee on Agriculture.
This sentiment, expressed mainly in fa-
vor of the pending legislation, has among
others, come from humane societies, it

has come from labo1 organizations, it has

come f1 om the rank and ﬁle of the Ame1-
ican people. ‘

When you sum it all up, it is just as
simple as this: No one that I know of
is in favor of cruelty to animals. 80 I
can 1eadily understand why this type

, of legislation should have so much popu-
nlar appeal.

Many conﬂicting opinions. were pre-
sented to the subcommittee. There were
many different views. Many different
methods of approach were presented.
The committee worked out what it
thought was a fair compromise.

This legislation has been kicked around
for 2 years. The clamor for it‘s enact-
ment has increased as time has gone on.
I dare say all Of you have received a fair
proportion of mail relating to this legis-
lation.

The bill provides that the Secretary of
Ag11culture shall put on a research pro-
gram to determine the most humane
methods of slaughter. Theie is no rush

"about it. He is going to be given an Op-

portunity to engage in p1oper r.esearch
Furthermore, an advisory committee
of 12 members is going to be set up to
advise the Secretary in determining hu-
mane methods of slaughter. All seg-
ments of our economy are represented on
that committee. The committee of 12
members shall be composed as follows:
One shall be an ofﬁcer or employee of
the Department of Agriculture desig-
nated by the Secretary who shall serve as
chairman. , 7
Two shall be representatives of na-
tional organizations of slaughterers.
One shall be a representative of the

' trade-union movement engaged in pack-

inghouse work.
One shall be a representative of the
general public.

Two shall be r‘ep1esentatives of live?

stock g1owe1s.

One shall be a representative of the
poultiy industry.

Two shall be representatives of na-
tional organizations of the humane

movement.

One shall be a representative of a na-
tional professional veterinary organiza—

'tion.

One shall be a. person familiar with the
requir ments of religious faiths with re-
spect o slaughter.

Certainly, this is an advisory commit—
tee which does represent every segment
of our economy, and they'are the ones
that are going to advise the Secretary
of Agriculture as to humane methods of

1431

slaughter. I should also point out that
this legislation does not take force and

effect until the Blst day of December

1959. So we will have most of the year
1958 and all Of 1959 to get the beneﬁt of"
the research program that the Secretary
of Agriculture is going to conduct. Fur:-
thermore, we will have the beneﬁt of the
advisory committee, so we should be
rather well advised by the time this law
becomes effective. And, I daresay if
there are any bugs in the new legislation,
ensuing sessions of Congress will take
care of the situation.

Mr. MILLER of Nebraska. Mr. Chair-

'man, will the gentleman yield?

M1. HOEVEN. I yield to the gentle-

'man fiom Nebraska.

Mr. MILLER of Nebraska. Does it ap-
ply to the small slaughter groups and ’

.‘the locker plants that are in existence

now?

Mr.- HOEVEN. As I understand, it
only applies to those slaughtering plants
that are engaged in interstate com-
merce and those plants that sell meat to
the Federal Government.

Mr. MILLER of Nebraska. What Will
be the cost of the operation of the plan?

Mr. HOEVEN. . The' cost is- problem—
atical. There have been different meth~
ods of humane slaughter suggested. The
research program on the partof the Sec-
retary of Agriculture and the ‘recom-
mendations‘ of the advisory committee
will all enter into the cost picture.

Certainly it is not the intention of the
Congress to penalize the small packers
and small slaughterers and put them out
of business; not at all. There has been
a lot of misconception about what the
bill will do in that respect. I would be
the last one to recommend that any-
thing like that be done. We are afford—
ing a long time for research and 'investi—
gation to try to put into effect a' law
which the public is demanding.

Mr. AVERY. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?

Mr. HOEVEN. I yield to the gentle-
man from Kansas.

Mr. AVERY. I just want to _make

sure I understand the procedure antici-

pated here. I am not sure that I under—
stood the gentleman from Texas,‘but if

‘I did understand him correctly, there are

to be some amendments offered later dur-
ing the consideration of the bill, and
that if these amendments are adopted,
the language of this bill will be acceptable
to certain religious groups in keeping
with their methods of slaughter; is. that
correct?

Mr. POAGE. That is correct.

Mr. AVERY. I believe I also under-
stood the gentleman from Texas to say
that no packer would be eligible to sell.
meat to the United States Government
unless he was in compliance with the
pi OV1s1ons of the bill.

M1. POAGE. That IS right.

Mr. AVERY. Then, are we not doing
this, just by making ' a statement of
policy in the bill, not changing the re—
quirements of the provisions, we are mak-

ing it possible for the kosher slaughterers

to sell meat to the United States .Gov—
ernment? Is that not about the effect
of it? '. ‘

 




1432

Mr. POAGE. Mr. Chairman, I do not
think that would be the effect of it at
all, because it would require the kosher
’ killers to continue to Slaughter in strict
compliance with the Jewish ritualistic
law.‘ The packers say they do not want
to carry out their operations that way on
a large scale. This would require a hu—
mane method, whether kosher or non-
kosher. It would require that kosher-
killed animals be put in revolving pens
or otherwise handled so they would not
be subject to the wheel, which represents
the present slaughtering methods.

Of course, it would be possible for
kosher slaughterers to sell to the Gov-
ernment, but there would be no induce-
ment on the part of the packers to en-
gage in kosher slaughter except to the
extent they do today. Every packer to-
day sellssome of the product of his cat-
tle slaughtering to the gentile trade al-
though it is killed kosher, because it is
cheaper to do so. There would be no
greater economic advantage under this
bill to do it. So I can see no reason in
the world why We should expect the
kosher packing houses to pick up any-
thing, nor would they be denied any
market they now have.

1 Swift and Armour today are complying
with the humane methods in killing cat-
tle and obviously there is no reason for
their changing to kosher methods as far
as cattle is concerned; and hogs are
never killed under kosher methods.

Mr. AVERY. Mr. Chairman, will the '

gentleman yield further?
Mr. HOEVEN. I yield to the gentle-
man from‘ Kansas.

Mr. AVERY. As I understand the bill}

as it is now written, the kosher killers
would not be considered as killing under
humane methods, is that true? ,

Mr. POAGE. Mr. Chairman, if the
gentleman will yield to me to answer;
“No, that is not correct.” The bill as
written now strictly deﬁnes this method
to be humane. In all frankness, the
amendments are nothing but clariﬁca-
tion, a little change in wording and, as
far as I can see, there is no material
change whatever in the meaning. There
were those who felt that they would
prefer this new language and in an effort
to try to be fair to our fellow citizens who
have a slightly different view of how we
. should handle this, the committee has
tried its best to get language that would
obtain the results and also give every
citizen of America the opportunity to
carry out his religious beliefs. I want
that for myself, the gentleman I am sure
wants it,‘ and we want to extend that
opportunity to every citizen of our coun-
try.

Mr. SCHERER. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield?

Mr. HOEVEN. I yield‘to the gentle-
man. _

Mr. SCHERER. The gentleman from
Iowa has said that the bill provides for
the setting up of a commission to deter-
mine the most humane way to kill pigs.
Has the Congress of the United States
. ever set up a commission to determine
"Whether the‘various States use the most
humane methods for the killing of a
human being as the result of a court
order?

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —— HOUSE

Mr. HOEVEN. Of course, that does
not have anything to do with the pro-
posed legislation.

Mr. SCHERER. I understand.

Mr. HOEVEN. But I will say to the
gentleman that there are a number of
States that already have legislation on
this subject, laws, that prevent the in-
humane treatment of animals, but which
apparently do not apply to slaughter-
house operations. .

" Mr. SCHERER. We leave the killing

‘of human being as the result of court

orders to the States. Why should we
not leave this matter to the States?

Mr. HOEVEN. Does the gentleman
contend that these matters should be
handled in the courts, that the courts
should determine what are humane
methods of slaughtering?

Mr. SCHERER. The courts merely
determine whether a man should be
killed as the result of judicial processes.

Mr. HOEVEN. Up to this time we
have had no legislation determining
what is a humane method of slaughter.
That is the very thing we are trying to
do for the guidance of the courts, I
imagine.

Mr. SCHERER. And I am saying,
that the matter of humane slaughter of
animals should be left to the individ-
ual States'rather than to the Federal
Government.

Mr. HOEVEN. I would concur, with
that as a general proposition but ap-
parently the respective States are not
taking care of the matter.

Mr. KEATING. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield?

Mr. HOEVEN. I yield to the gentle~
man.

Mr. KEATING. I wonder if the gen-
tleman from Texas could tell us, if it
would not unduly delay consideration of
this bill, just how, by his amendment
on page 2, he is taking care of the sen-
sibilities of some of our fellow citizens?

Mr. POAGE. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield for that purpose?

Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. Chairman, I
wanted to say, in further reply to the
gentleman from Ohio, that we are also
dealing here with interstate commerce
which puts a iather diffe1ent slant on
the legislation that we a1e considering
today.

Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from New York [Mr. KEAT-
ING].

Mr. KEATING. I wonder if the gen-
tleman from Texas will respond to my
question.

Mr. POAGE I would be glad to. The
amendment p1 oposed would apply to sec—
tion 2. Where we say “slaughter” they
would change the word to “slaughtering.”
That occurs two or three times. I frank-
ly do not understand the import of it, but
I see nothing wrong with using the word
“slaughtering” instead of the word
“slaughter.” ,

Where we use the words “such public
policy” in line 5, the amendment would
insert “of the United States.” I think
the language was adequate to begin with,
but if that clariﬁes it we are perfectly
satisﬁed.

There is a statement that it is humane
in the case of cattle, calves, horses, mules,

February 4

sheep, swine, and other livestock by
either of two methods of slaughtering
and handling which are hereby found to
be humane. As to the two methods of
slaughtering, the ﬁrst, (a), is word for
word as we have it, and the second, (b),
would change the words “in conformity”
to “in accordance with,” and instead of
saying “the practices” say “the ritual
requirements.” We do not see that that
makes any great difference.

Then instead of saying “any estab-
lished religious faith” they say “Jewish
faith or any othe1 religious faith.”

Then instead of saying “which prac-
tices and requirements are hereby de-
clared to be humane within the meaning
of this act,” they say “any othe1 1eligious
faith that prescribes a method of
slaughter whereby the animal suffers loss
of consciousness by anemia of the brain
caused by the simultaneous and instan-
taneous severance of the carotid arteries
with a sharp instrument.”

That simply deﬁnes the Jewish
method of slaughtering. It is simply a
case of ﬁnding that that method as de-
scribed here, when carried out according
to the Jewish ritualistic or any other
ritualistic method of slaughtering is de-
ﬁned to be a humane practice.

Frankly, I cannot see that it achieves
any material difference from the lan-
guage we used, but as I said a while ago,
it does satisfy the feelings of some peo-
ple who had some reservations about
this, and they unquestionably had them
in good faith. They felt there was a
danger, perhaps, in what we were doing.
They say, “We want to prevent the same
thing you want to prevent. ' We want to
prevent any unnecessary cruelty. We
believe if you will use this language it
will be acceptable to praCtically all the
groups involved.” So we have simply
made these minor changes in the lan-
guage. That is all that is in the pro-
posed amendment.

Mr. KEATING. I thank the gentle-
man. It seems to me this amendment
which has been so carefully worked but
should serve to remove the objections
which have been raised by certain re-
ligious leaders.

The legislation itself is worthy and
deserves support.

Clearly, we should do all we can to
insure that livestock is slaughtered in
the most humane manner possible.
That, it seems to me, is our moral ob-
ligation both as human beings and as
’legislators. We owe much of prosperity,
our health, and our happiness to those
of the animal kingdom who today a1e
often dying in unnecessarily inhumane
treatment. ‘

(Mr. KEATING asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.) ,

Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. Chairman,.I yield
5 minutes to the gentleman from Mich-
igan [Mr. BENTLEY].

(Mr. BENTLEY asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his
remarks.)

Mr. BENTLEY. Mr. Chairman, like
many, if not all, Members of the Con-
gress, I have received both this year and
last year a substantial volume of mail in
support of‘H. R. 8308, a bill providing

 




1958

for the humane slaughtering of animals.
I have replied to the writers of these let-
ters that if this legislation came to the
ﬂoor of the House, I would support it.
However, at this time I take the floor to
present, in all fairness, another side of
the story which is a very interesting let-
ter I received last summer from a small
packing company in my district. The
letter is as follows:
PEE'r PACKING Co.,
Saginaw, Mich., July 17, 1957.
Hon. ALVIN M BENTLEY,
Member. of Congress,
New House Oﬁice Building,
. Washington, D C

DEAR AL: I have your letter of July 11, 1957,
regarding the wire which I sent in opposition
to H. R. 8308. It appears to me that possibly

I should explain a little more in detail than,

I was able to do in the wire as to our feeling
in connection with this bill.

We are wholeheartedly in accord with"

slaughtering byhhumane' methé‘ds. As evi-
dence of that, Al, I would like to state that
as soon as they were available in the United
States, we purchased a captive bolt. pistol,
and have used it to a greater or lesser extent
ever since for the slaughter of cattle. This
pistol was not satisfactory, from a service
angle, and we ﬁnally purchased a second pis-
tol, feeling we could have one in service while

the other was being returned to the factory '

for repairs. However, even the two pistols
were of so much trouble, servicewise, that
we were unable to keep them in use all the
time.

A few months ago, a new instrument came
onto the market, and we have purchased one
of those stunning pistols. During the short
period of time it has been'in use, we have had
very good results with this new instrument.
If it continues to prove satisfactory, all of
our cattle slaughtering will be done by the
use of this captive-bolt pistol.

FrOm the above, I believe you can see that

we are attempting to ﬁnd an answerlto this '

problem, and we are not unique among pack-
ers in that respect. The slaughter of cattle
does not seem to present too serious a prob-
lem in this respect. During recent months,
the Remington Arms people have, likewise,
brought out a new stunning pistol which
seems to offer considerable premise.

However, the slaughter of hogs is an en-
tirely different problem. This is the problem
that seemsmore difficult for the packers to
ﬁnd a satisfactory answer.

I know there has been considerable pub-
licity regarding the fact that slaughtering is
done by electrolysis in Europe. ‘ This method,
however, is not'satisfactory in this country.
We are advised by the Federal inspectors that
it is impossible to distinguish between a dis-
eased hog and one that has been killed by
electrolysis, and they, therefore, are opposed
to this system. While we have done no ex-
perimenting of this system, yet the informa-
tion I have read on the sub jectconvinces me
that a much less desirable product would be
the end result of killing by electrolysis, be-
cause there is not ‘complete bleeding of the
animal after they are killed.

The only satisfactory method for killing
hogs on a so-called humane basis, and in
the quantities which hogs must be killed in
this country, is the 00.3, developed by one of
the major packers. This method seems to
hold great promise for packers who kill a
sufﬁcient quantity of hogs that they can
afford to make the investment. We have sent
representatives of our company to inspect
this new method, and the results are very
encouraging, except for the fact that an in-
stallation costs approximately $40,000. I am
sure you will recognize that many small
packers. would ﬁnd themselves unable to
.make such an investment in new equipment.

- it was inhumane.

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —- HOUSE

‘ I hope from the above, Al, that you will
realize the industry, has, during recent years,
made considerable progress toward what is
termed humane slaughtering. However, it is
our feeling that until such time as practical
methods of humane slaughtering are devised,
we should not require packers throughout
the country to completely discard their pres-
ent slaughtering equipment. To the best of
my knowledge, there is no satisfactory meth-
od that would be classed as humane slaugh-
tering for the small hog slaughterer.

Possibly the ﬁrst question that should be
answered is, What constitutes humane
slaughtering? What would appear to some of
us to qualify under that classiﬁcation would
be entirely unsatisfactory to others. There-
fore, it seems that until such time as a satis-
factory method of killing that will qualify as
humane slaughter, the Secretary of Agricul-
ture should have the authority to state what
constitutes humane slaughter. I am certain
there are many well-meaning people who

' would, object to seeing cattle slaughtered by

a. captive bolt pistol because they might feel
Nevertheless, this appar-
ently qualiﬁes for humane slaughter.

I give you the above information, Al, not
because I think you can use it to change the
action if this bill reaches the floor of the
House, but rather togive you the thinking of
one of the many small packers in the United

States, and from "the discussion with others,

I know the above represents the. thinking of
most progressive packers. I am aware there
has been considerable criticism of slaugh-
tering methods, and frankly, I must admit
that the packers have been very slow in at-
tempting to change their methods to what is
now being classed as humane. However, it is
my feeling, with the progress that has been
made during the last few years by the pack-
ing industry, it would be well to give them
sufﬁcient time to ﬁnd an answer to this
problem. I believe you will agree that no
one else is quite as well qualiﬁed'to ﬁnd the
solution as the packers themselves._

'Thanking you for your letter? and with
warm personal regards, I am,

Very-truly yours,
R. D. STEARNS,
President.

In view of the progress that has appar-
ently been made in slaughtering methods
by the American meatpacking industry
and in view of the joint statement issued
by the American Humane Association
and the American Meat Institute, of

“which I believe all members have re-

ceived a“ copy, I am frankly curious as to
why it is felt necessary to bring this legis-
lation before the House for action at this
time. No one would deny that there has
in the past been barbarous methods of
killing animals, particularly hogs, but
also, no one could deny that the great
majority of packers have made real and
sincere progress in their endeavors to
ﬁnd more humane. methods of slaughter-
ing these animals. Since the American
Humane Association has itself expressed
gratiﬁcation with this trend in the pack-
ing industry, since it has, as of last fall,
given its stamp of approval to plants
handling approximately 11 million ani-
mals and hopes to give similar awards‘to
many more in the near future, I frankly

cannot see the necessity for legislation

at this time. As I stated above, I will vote
for H. R. 8308, but I believe it would have
been better if the meatpacking industry
and the American Humane Association
had been left to work this problem out on
a cooperative and apparently satisfactory
basis.

. all.

1433

May I ask the gentleman from Texas
if he is familiar with the slaughtering
process known as electrolysis?

It was discussed

Mr. POAGE. Yes.
in the committee.

Mr. BENTLEY. I wonder if the gen-
tleman then would care to comment on
this particular statement from my con—
stituent’ 5 letter:

We are advised by the Federal inspectors
that it is impossible to distinguish between
a diseased hog and one that has been killed
by electrolysis, and they, therefore, are op-
posed to this system. While we have done
no experimenting of this system, yet the in-
formation I have read on the subject con-
vinvces me that a much less desirable product
would be the end result of killing by electrol—
ysis because there is not, complete bleeding
of the animal after theyare killed.

Is it not true that if a hog has been
killed by electrolysis you cannot tell
whether or not it was diseased? '

Mr. POAGE. That was the testimony
that was given before our committee,
and I assume it' is true, but there is noth-
ing in this bill even suggesting that you
must use electrolysis as a method. There
is nothing in this bill suggesting it need
ever be used.

Will the gentleman from Michigan
give us the name of the paCker whose
letter he is reading?

Mr. BENTLEY I will be very glad to.
It is the Peet Packing Co., of Saginaw,
Mich. The letter I- am reading from is
by Mr. R. D. Stearns, president.’

Mr. POAGE. I thank the gentleman.

Mr. BENTLEY. I would like to read
another paragraph from this letter and
I invite the gentleman’s comments, if he
cares to comment on it. It says:

The only satisfactory method for killing
hogs on a so-called humane basis and in the
quantities in which hogs must be killed in
this country is the 002 developed by one of
the major packers of which an installation
costs about $40,000.

Can the gentleman tell us what C021
is? Frankly, I do not know.

Mr. POAGE. That is carbon dioxide
gas. It is a method that Hormel and
other packers are using. The hogs are
driven through the gas to cause in-
sensibility before they are stuck for
bleeding, but it is not the only method
and it is not required under this bill at
On the contrary, under the terms .
of this bill you can use the captive bolt
pistol or the Remington stunner. If you
have the statement that was put out last
week by the American Meat Institute
and the American Humane Society, you
know that they pointed out in their
statement that the only objection they
have found so far to that change is sim-
ply the difliculty of applying the stun—
ner, the instrument, to the hog’s head;
So that there is notany serious problem
that we can see that prevents the use
of humane methods. I would like to
call the gentleman’s attention further
to the fact that there are onlyfour pack-

ring houses in the State of Michigan that

could possibly be affected by this law.
There are only 4 in the State of Michi-
gan who come within the Federal in-
spection, and they are the only ones who
can bid on Government contracts so
there cannot be more than 4 packers in

 




