-T‘.

,.- ., ..*--r..-_, W" *5 _ ,- .______

l—-—‘,

«m, a, -.:~",r ‘ < ' - a“: “(v-‘1 ~‘:~

A PLEA FOR THE HORSE 1
Every horse

. ’ ‘ , . . ; f . I.

j / MC 40 I . - 1 - .7:-
W M % é ; net . 9 ugh room to lie down ; a fly {e
[A , the 22:51:] 33:23:21? :3: Vaflatllon elaacfh year. .Avoid'f,

J ' which cause blindness, . an c ose y Ittms blinders.

SPARE THE WHIP '

HOT-WEATHER RULSESR

 

 

Load lightly, and drive slowlyg

1
2. Stop in the shade if possible.
3

. Water your horse as often as possible. So long as a horse is working,
water in small quantities will not hurt him. But let him drink only a few swal-
lows if he is going to stand still. Do not fail to water him at night after he has
eaten his hay. I

4. When he comes in after work, sponge off the harness marks and sweat,
ihis eyes, his nose and mouth, and the dock. Wash his feet but not his legs.

5. If the thermometer is 75 degrees or higher, wipe him all over with a damp
1 sponge, using Vinegar water if possible. Do not wash the horse at night.

6. Saturday night, give a bran mash, lukewarm; and add a tablespoonful
of saltpetre. '

7. Do not use a horse-hat, unless it is a canopy—top hat. The ordinary bell-
shaped hat does more harm than good.

8. A sponge on top of the head, or even a cloth, is good if kept wet. If .
dry it is worse than nothing.

9. If the horse is overcome by heat, get him into the shade, remove harness
and bridle, wash out his mouth, sponge him all over, shower his legs, and give him
two ounces of aromatic spirits of ammonia, or two ounces of sweet spirits of nitre,
in a pint of water; or give him a pint of coffee warm. Cool his head at once, using
cold water, or, if necessary, chopped ice, wrapped in a cloth. ’

10. If the horse is off his feed, try him with two quarts of oats mixed with
bran, and a little water; and add a little salt or sugar. Or give him oatmeal gruel
or barley water to drink. '

11. Watch your horse. If he stops sweating suddenly, or if he breathes
short and quick, or if his ears droop, or if he stands with his legs braced sideways,
he is in danger of a heat or sun stroke and needs attention at once.

12. If it is so hot that the horse sweats in the stable at night, tie him out-
side, with bedding under him. Unless he cools off during the night, he cannot well
stand the next day’s heat.

 

These Rules are prepared by the‘wﬁgwétonV'Vork-Horse Relief Asmmhose ofﬁce is at 15 Beacon Street,
Boston, Mass. We also publish Stable Rules, Drivers’ Rules and Noon-Feeding Rules. Copies of any of these Rules
will be sent free on application. Our Oﬂice is open throughout the year.
”hm HENRY C. MERWIN, President.

LEWIS A. ARMISTEAD, Secretary.

 




   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    

i f/
'7‘: Suggestions for Horses. '7‘

Do not hitch or leave horses to face sun or
\iwind. They feel all such miseries just as we I . " -
would. Keep them in the shade at home and , p , i
abroad, when possible. Also give them fresh' 1' . 5‘
grass while it grows. It is Nature’s best medicine
and restorer, and often cures sick and tired-out
horses, and makes well ones happy. Theyneed,
crave and deserve it. God made it for them, and
He will surely bless andrewardyou for all you
do for His helpless, dumb children, who are our
loyal, loving servants, friends and colleagues. ' 1
For us they toil and die. Millions of acres of , '
grass by the wayside, in all our states, go to
waste every year, which could be utilized for
horses, cows and mules. Thousands of cows are
cruelly and idiotically kept in barns all summer
in the country, with grass all around them too.
When horses gnaw trees and eat leaves, it is
because they craVe grass and need it. It is the
same to them that fresh vegetables and fruit
are to us in spring. A noted veterinary . ii
surgeon says: “Give horses grass when tired or {
sick. It beats medicine all to pieces.” Also try
the rest cure for tired, sick horses, and the kind—
ness cure for all horses, thus making them happy,
healthy and. valuable. The famous London
Horse Book well says: “The check-rein is an ,
instrument of torture and a device of the devil.”
Blinders are unnecessary. They are heating
to the eyes, and being often broken, and ill— _
ﬁtting are a source of much misery to the horse.
Horses love, and should have, a constant variety
of food. How would we like to live on one or
two kinds of food all our lives? And it is just
the same with them. Give them vegetables the 1
year round, add fruit whenever possible if on], a ‘
the rinds. They love melons, apples, carrots,
cabbage, etc. Take out large stones from fruit of I
like that of plums and peaches. They also lOVW
molasses and should have it every week, half a
cupful or more in a dish. Probably the reason
some horses like tobacco is because of the molasses ,
in it. _ 4
If owners of any animal cannot afford straw -
or hay to bed it, get in a large lot of leaves in/W
in the fall if owners live near the woods or trees.
Give them deep beds, and throw the leaves out
when soiled, and put in clean onesf'Give' leaveW
to poultry also in winter to scratch in and keep
their feet warm. Nothing on earth is too good
for all these wonderful friends and servants of
man .whose priceless services we take every hour
of our lives. That noble man, James Boyle
O’Reilly said man deserved hell for his cruelty to
horses.———M. C. JORDAN.

 

l

 

 

 




 

 

 

15.

16.

18.

 

10.

11.

1‘3.

14.

STABLE RULES

The best order 1n feeding 15: Water, hay, water again, grain.

NEVER GIVE GRAIN TO A TIRED HORSE. Let him rest and nibble bay for an hour or two first.

Grain 1n the manger before the horse comes in looks bad.
Water the horses as often as possible; but let the horse that comes in hot drink a few swallows only, until he is cool.
Always water the horse after he has eaten his hay at night. DO NOT GO TO BED LEAVING HIM
THIRSTY ALL NIGHT. . '

Do not forget to salt the horse once a Week; or, better yet, KEEP SALT ALWAYS BEFORE HIM. He knows best
how much he needs. '

Give a bran mash Saturday night or Sunday noon; and on Wednesday night also, if work is slack. After a
long day in very cold or wet weather, a warm mash, half bran and half oats, With a tablespoonful of ginger,
will do the horse good. Put very little salt, if any, in the mash.

If the horse does not eat well, or slobbers, examine his teeth.

Keep a good, DEEP, dry bed under the horse while he is in the stable, DAY OR NIGHT, on Sundays

especially. The more he lies down, the longer his legs and feet will last.

In order to do well, the horse must'be kept WARM. Give him a blanket on cool nights in late summer or early
fall, and an extra blanket on an extra cold night in winter.

In cold rains do NOT tie up the-horse’s tail". The long tail prevents the water from running down the inside of
his legs, and keeps off a current of air from his belly.

Take off the harness, collar and all, when the horse comes in to feed. He will rest better without it.

Never put a horse up dirty or muddy for the night. AT LEAST brush his legs and belly, and straighten his hair.

In hot weather, and in all weathers if the horse is hot, SPONGE his eyes, nose, dock, the harness marks, and.

the inside of his hind-quarters when he ﬁrst comes in.

When the horse comes in wet with rain, ﬁrst scrape him, then blanket him, and rub his head, neck, loins
and legs. If the weather is cold put on an extra blanket in 20 minutes. Change the wet blanket when the
horse dries. DO NOT WASH THE LEGS. Rub them dry, or bandage loosely with thick bandages.

It IS far more important to have the legs warm and dry than clean.

To prevent scratches, DRY the horse’s fetlocks and heels when he comes in, especially in winter; and rub on a
little vaseline before he goes out in snow or mud.

EXAMINE THE HORSE’S FEET when he comes in, and wash them if he does not wear pads. If a horse
in the city is not shod in front with pads, tar and oakum, which is the best way, it is absolutely necessary to
keep his feet soft by packing them, or by wrapping a wet piece of old blanket or carpet around the coroner, or by
applying some hoof dressing or axle oil, inside and out, at least three times a week.

Let the horse have a chance to roll as often as possible; it will rest and refresh him. Give him a little clean
earth or a piece of sod to eat now and then; he craves it, and it is good for his stomach and blood.

MW “—8

SPEAK GENTLY to the horse, and do not swear or yell at him. He IS a gentleman by instinct, and should be
treated as such. The stable is the horse’s home, and it is your privileg’é‘tb'ﬁa‘ke it a happy—oner—~

 

N. B. It is very important that stables should be well ventilated; but do M a draft blow on the horses. Horses in

 

stalls near a door or open window should be blanketed accordingly.

 

These Rules are prepared by the Boston Work-Horse Relief Association, whose‘ ofﬁce is at 15 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.
Copies of the Rules will be sent free on application.

 

 

”w.—

 

./

HENRY C. MERWIN, President.
LEWIS A. ARMISTEAD, Secretary.

 

 

 
  

 

 

‘ “1.41.“-..i-JA ,_ '_

 

    
   

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   




.. :nllii‘zag‘yr «#1:: z

 




