No. 92. NEW SERIES] [35. per 100.

%uctety

THE

Qtrueltp to animaiﬁ

(INCORPORATED)
105, JERMYN STREET, LONDON, S.W.I.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

ROBBING THE BIRDS.

 

THE birds’ nesting season is begun every spring by
the Blackbird and Thrush; the Robin, Chafﬁnch
and Bullﬁnch follow. Some of the birds like tp have
more shelter for their nests and wait until May, when
the hedges and bushes have spread their leaves and have
thus given the birds greater protection for their nests.

Are not the birds’ nests wonderful bits of work?
Could any clever basket-weaver make anything neater
out of the materials the birds use—twigs, roots and grass
for a foundation woven in with moss and lichens, lined
with horse-hair picked up in the pastures, scraps of
wool combed from the sheep’s ﬂeece by bramble and gorse
and with soft feathers shed by other birds or plucked
from the nest-builder’s own breast ?

A human being, with a pair of hands to work with
and ingenious tools to aid him, could not make a suitable
nest for a bird; yet the bird, With only its beak, its
claws and the warmth and weight of its body, can fashion
a perfect home for itself. A bird’s nest is really a more
wonderful thing than the most magniﬁcent mansion
designed and made by men.

And the birds themselves are not less wonderful
than their homes; they are such delightful creatures,
:so graceful in their shapes and their movements, and
:such exquisite singers. The beauty of the birds and
the glorious music they make add greatly to our enjoy-
t-ment of life.

But the birds are not merely beautiful. They are
also very useful to us, because they search industriously
for the noxious insects that destroy our crops. In com—
‘mon fairness to the birds we certainly ought to do all we
can to protect them. We owe the birds a deep debt
kOf gratitude.

And how do some boys show their gratitude to the
birds? By stealing the birds’ eggs and thus ruining
their homes.




1 want to say something to any boys guilty of such
an action Why do you do this thing, by which you gain.
nothing and the birds lose everything they have?
You would not be so eager to investigate a wasp’s nest
or a hive of bees. Why? Because you would be afraid
of being stung.

So, you see, it comes to this. You don’t mind
spoiling one of the most beautiful things on this earth— a
nest of birds’ eggs—because you know that the owners
——the birds—are defenceless. They can’t hit back at
you. Think that over and then form your own opinion
of any boy who robs a bird’s nest.

There was once a boy who robbed a blind beggar
of his pennies, but that boy was no worse than any bo
who, knowing that a bird is powerless to defend herself,
deliberately spoils her home.

But the stealer of eggs is not only cowardly. 'He
is also unpatriotic. Every bird’s egg destroyed means
one bird less in the country. Each egg, if left to be
hatched by the joyous parent birds, will bring forth a
tiny nestling for whom the parent birds will slave from
sunrise to sunset to get its food. Farmers and fruit—
growers and allorment holders will suffer less from the
depredations of insects, and therefore food will be more
plentiful and less costly if boys will refrain from robbing
the birds of their eggs. And the country will be even
more delightful than it is now, because of the many
birds and their sweet music.

If you once learn to admire the birds as they ﬂy to
and fro in their native haunts you will never want to
rob a nest or even look for one. There is so much more
pleasure to be gained by merely watching the birds, without
going near them. You can sit down in a wood, or on a bank
by the side of a ﬁeld, and just watch ﬂhe birds as they
ﬂy past you. Be still and be silent and the birds will
take no notice of you. You will be able to notice for
yourself the beautiful colourings and markings of the
different birds and their various modes of ﬂight, and if
you have an understanding ear you may learn in time

 




something of what the birds are saying to one another;
they have a language of their own.

If you see a bird going time after time to one spot
with a feather or a bit of moss in its beak you will know
that the bird is busily engaged in building a nest. Do
not get up from your seat to search for the half-ﬁnished.
nest; the birds will resent your interference.

Later on in the season you will see birds carrying;
food in their bills for their little ones just hatched. Again,
do not interfere with the birds ; do not try to ﬁnd the
nest—the birds’ home. Do not go near a nest. If
a mother bird is sitting on her eggs you may scare her,
and cause her to forsake her nest through sheer fright. The
mere touch of your hand in or on a nest will taint it;
the birds, when they return, will know what has happened
and in all probability they will forsake the nest.

Is it fair to treat a defenceless living creature in.
that way?

When you are watching the birds you will ﬁnd that
you have one of the most interesting occupations known
to man. Do not spoil it by trying to pry into the birds’
homes. Think to yourself :—How should I like it?

That is always a safe question to ask yourself when
you are in any doubt as to how you should treat any
living creature—~How should I like it?

How would you like it if some burly giant were to
come unasked into your home ? You would feel that
if you had the strength to turn him out you would gladly
do so. That we may be sure, is just how a bird feels
when an inquisitive boy disturbs its nest. But the
bird is just as powerless with the boy as the boy would
be with the giant.

Be fair to the birds. Admire them to your heart’s
content; try to Understand, by merely watching the
birds, something of the wOnders of bird life. But never
be guilty of any action which can cause a moment’s dis-
tress to any bird or the slightest injury to its beauti-
ful home.

1314/3/33 M. & c.

 




