 

FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION.

 

 

COMMENTARY

(\N THE

CRUELTY T0 ANIMALS ACT 1676

B Y TH E

HON. BERNARD COLERIDGE,

Of the ‘Middle Temple, Ba/M'ister-at-Law.

 

 

SECOND EDITION. _

 

 

ﬂittnria Street Sudan
_ FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION
* United wzt‘h the

@ntematinual ﬂgsudaﬁnn .
FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION OF VIVISECTION.
'Oﬂices .-——20, "VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, s. W.

1891.

 

 




 

 

 




 

5:72.;

 

 

 

 

COMMENTARY

ON THE

CRUELTY T0 ANIMALS ACT, 1876.

HON. BERNARD COLERIDGE,

0f the Middle Mel/(pie, Barrister-(it-Law.

Reine/Lied from T1115 ZUUI’HILIST.

 

ﬂﬂirtnztia ﬁtveet 50mm
FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM JVIVISEUTION
United with the
ﬁnimmﬁmal gﬁsntinﬁmt
FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION 0F VT'VISEGTION.
Oﬁéces .-—-20, 171010er STREET, LONDON, 5.1V.

1891.

 




 

 

 




 

 

COMMENTARY ON THE CRUELTY TO
ANIMALS ACT. 1876.

BY THE HON. BERNARD COLERIDGE.

OF THE MIDDLE TEMPLE, BARRIS'rEn-A'raLAW.

 

Vivisection is a practice about which men naturally differ,
differ in earnest, and bitterly. On the one side are they
who condemn the practice on two grounds. They deny
that it is proﬁtable, or that it leads to the saving or pro-
longing of life, or alleviating suffering; and they say further,
that, even if it be shown to be occasionally thus proﬁtable,
it is so cruel, that its occasional utility does not justify its use.

On the other side are they who say that the study of
physiology by means of vivisection leads to the obtaining of
knowledge; that the end, the increase of knowledge, is a
sufﬁcient justification for the means, vivisection, by which
the end is reached ; and, further, that knowledge, thus
obtained, can often be practically applied to prolonging life,
and alleviating Suffering.

And when the opposers of vivisection urge that at any
rate the animal operated on should be prevented from feeling
pain by the administration of an anaesthetic, and should be
killed before the effect of the anaesthetic has passed away, the
defenders answer that the administering of anaesthetics is a
difﬁcult and precarious operation often ending in the prema-
ture death of the animal, that in many cases by altering its
physical condition the anaesthetics frustrate the object of the
experiment, and also that, where the observation of the after
effect of the vivisection is desired, the killing of the animal
before it wakes from the influence of the anaesthetic, prevents
that observation.

With some modifications, of course, this is, I think, a fair
summary of the views held by the two parties. The great
bulk of the medical profession, and a large body of scientific
professors are, with some noteworthy exceptions, among
those who approve of vivisection. And it is to these
approvers of vivisection that its practice is, by the Cruelty to
Animals Act of 1876, in fact entrusted.

 




 

 

 

L1

This Act, which is something of a. compromise upon the
face of it, was passed to appease the growing feeling against
the inﬂiction of pain in this form. Limit the practice, in
some sort, no doubt it does. Prior to the Act anybody could
Vivisect any animal, other than a domestic animal, with or
without anaesthetics, where, when, and how he pleased.
This unlimited Vivisection is now illegal.

Now by section 2 :—

“ A. person shall not perform on a living animal any experi-

“ment calculated to give pain, except subject to the
“restrictions imposed by this Act.”

If he does so he renders himself liable to a penalty not
exceeding ﬁfty pounds for the ﬁrst offence, and for the second
offence to a penalty not exceeding one hundred pounds, or to
imprisonment for a period not exceeding three months at the
discretion of the Court.

And these restrictions are imposed by section 8 2——

“ (1.) The experiment must be performed with a View to
“the advancement by new discovery of physiological
“knowledge or of knowledge which will be useful for
“ saving or prolonging life or alleviating suffering; and

“ (2.) The experiment must be performed by a person
“holding such license from one of Her Majesty’s
“ Principal Secretaries of State, in this Act referred to
“ as the Secretary of State, as is in this Act mentioned,
“and in the case of a person holding such conditional
“ license as is hereinafter mentioned, or of experiments
“ performed for the purpose of instruction, in a
“registered place ; and

“ (3.) The animal must, during the whole of the experiment,
“ be under the inﬂuence of some anaesthetic of sufﬁcient
“power to prevent the animal feeling pain; and

“ (4.) The animal must, if the pain is likely;to continue after
“the effect of the anaesthetic has ceased, or if any
“serious injury has been inﬂicted on the animal, be
“killed before it recovers from the influence of the
“ anaesthetic which has been administered ; and

“ (5.) The experiment shall not be performed as an illustra-
“ tion of lectures in medical schools, hospitals, colleges,
“or elsewhere; and

“ (6.) The experiment shall not be performed for the
“purpose of attaining manual skill.”

If these restrictions had gone further, and prohibited all
Vivisection save in a registered place, and in the presence
of an inspector whose duty it should be to see that the
restrictions were duly complied with, the Act would then
indeed have limited, as it professes to limit, the inﬂiction of
pain upon animals. Perhaps it might not have put~ an
absolute step to cruel operations performed in private.

 




5

Private and illegal practices can, if undetected, go un-
punished. But there is always the possibility of detection,
and men of the, class of learned professors do not readily
commit acts which are illegal, and for which punishment is.
inﬂicted. Moreover they would not dare in such cases.
publish the accounts of their investigations, and such publica~
tion affords certainly a main reason, if not the only reason,
why they vivisect.

But the Act does not complete these restrictions by such
an addition as I have suggested, nor does it leave them
where they stand. It immediately overrides them by a
series of provisoes which deliver over the animals to the
will and pleasure of the holders of licenses and certiﬁcates,
which can be obtained from the Secretary of tate, subject
to his discretionary refusal, signed by those who may be, and
probably are, vivisectors themselves.

We will ﬁrst see what these holders“ of licenses and cer-
tiﬁcates can do, and then see how these licenses and
certiﬁcates can be obtained.

By section 8 :—-

“ The Secretary of State may license any person whom he
“may think qualiﬁed to hold a license to perform
“experiments under this Act. A license granted by
“him may be for such time as he may think ﬁt, and
“may be revoked by him on his being satisﬁed that
“such license ought to be revoked. There may be
“annexed to such license any conditions which the
“Secretary of State may think expedient for the
“ purpose of better carrying into effect the objects of this
“ Act, but not inconsistent with the provisions thereof.”

And by section 9 2——

The Secretary of State may direct any persons per-
“forming experiments under this Act from time to
“time to make such reports to him of the result of
“such experiments in such form and in such details as
“he may require.” .

The Secretary of State may annex conditions, and require
reports—but he may not. Whether he does so or not is
purely discretionary. .

The license is granted on an application, signed by certain
persons. These applications I shall deal with When I come
to section 11.

The simple license holder who has no certiﬁcate is bound
by the restrictions. But there is no machinery provided by
the Act to guarantee their observance. No eye need watch
his actions. No inspector can intrude upon his operations.
By section 13, a constable may on a warrant obtained from
a Justice of the Peace on information upon oath enter any

 




 

 

 

6

building in order to carry into effect the provisions of the
Act, but that is only where the suspected person holds no
license. From such an invasion on his privacy the licensee
is free. The existence of the laboratory in his house with its
appliances, its victims, and its instruments, affords no ground
for investigation. The use of them all is sanctioned by law.
In vain might his neighbour on oath state to a justice, that,
having heard the cries of animals in pain, he had reason to
believe that anaesthetics were not being administered in
accordance with restrictions 8 or 4, and that the vivisector
had no certiﬁcate authorising him to dispense with their
use. The answer would be that he held a simple license,
and that, though the belief of the informant might be well-
founded, an Englishman’s home is his castle.

True, the Secretary of State by section ’7 may insert, as a
condition of granting a license, a provision that the place in
which any experiment is to be performed by the licensee is to
be registered, but as we have seen, this is purely optional. If
he inserts this provision, by section 10 it is provided that—

“ The Secretary of State shall cause all registered places to

“ be from time to time visited by inspectors for the

“ purpose of securing a compliance with the provisions

“ of this Act.”

But there is no provision that the inspectors shall be there
during the performance of the experiment; no cumpulsory
notice to be given by the operator to the inspector of the
time at which the operation is to be performed; and a
minute inspection of the laboratory, vivisection trough, and
instruments, when the operator was not performing an opera-
tion would do nothing to secure a compliance with the pro-
visions of the Act.

Such is the position of the simple licensee. The position of
the holder of a certiﬁcate is governed by the provisoes.

They are as follows :—

“1. Experiments may be performed under the foregoing
“ provisions as to anmsthetics by a person giving illus-
“trations of lectures in medical schools, hospitals, or
“ colleges, or elsewhere, on such certiﬁcate being given
“as in this Act mentioned, that the proposed experi-
“ments are absolutely necessary for the due instruc-
“tion of the persons to whom such lectures are given
“ with a view to their acquiring physiological knowledge,
“ or knowledge which will be useful to them for saving
“ or prolonging life or alleviating suffering ; and

“ 2. Experiments may be performed without anmsthetics on
“ such certiﬁcate being given as in this Act mentioned,
“that insensibility cannot be produced without neces-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

—\ A

17

 

 

 

 

7

“ sarily frustrating the object of such experiments;
“and

“3. Experiments may be performed without the person
“who performed such experiments being under an obli-
“ gation to cause the animal on which any such experi-
“ ment is performed to be killed before it recovers from
“the inﬂuence of the anaesthetic, on such certiﬁcate
“being given as in this Act mentioned, that the so
“killing the animal would necessarily frustrate the
“object of the experiment, and provided that the
“animal be killed as soon as such object has been
“attained; and

“4. Experiments may be performed not directly for the
“ advancement by new discovery of physiological know-
“ledge, or of knowledge which will be useful for
“saving or prolonging life or alleviating suffering, but
“for the purpose of testing a particular former dis-
“ covery alleged to have been made for the advance-
“ ment of such knowledge as last aforesaid on such
“ certiﬁcate being given as in this Act mentioned, that
“such testing is absolutely necessary for the advance-
“ ment of such knowledge.”

The practical effect of these provisoes is to override the
restrictions already imposed, and to deliver the animals over
under the sanction of a certiﬁcate to be operated upon by
vivisectors. Nor is there any provision by which the public
may know who are, and who are not, the holders of these
licenses and certiﬁcates, which give such scope for the
practice of vivisection. All may be shrouded in the most
profound secrecy. ’

In the ﬁrst place Proviso 1 continues to draw the distinc—
tion which is observed throughout the Act, between physio-
logical knowledge, and knowledge which will be useful for

- saving or prolonging life, or alleviating suffering, which

restriction 1 has already drawn, and permits vivisection to
be practised by way of illustration of lectures, the object of
which is to impart physiological knowledge wholly uncon-
nected with any useful or humane purpose. Nor would
experiments illustrating lectures as a rule be performed, save
for the necessary purpose of the due instruction of those who
attend them.

In the next place the question arises may a vivisector who
has obtained a certiﬁcate under Proviso 1 go further and
obtain a certiﬁcate under Provisoes 2 or 8 and operate, by
way of illustration of lectures, without anaesthetics, or, if an
anaesthetic is used, without the obligation to kill before the
animal has recovered from its inﬂuence ? Possibly, nay
probably, the Act intended all operations in public by way of

 




 

8

illustration to lectures to be performed under anaesthetics,
and with the obligation to kill. But has it said so ‘2 This
is a penal Act, to be construed, therefore, according to the
usual rule, most strictly in favour of the accused,
and if an operator had added to his certiﬁcate under
Proviso 1, a certiﬁcate under Provisoes 2 or 3, or pos-
sessed a certiﬁcate covering both provisoes, and had
operated without anaesthetics, by way of illustration to
lectures, or, if an anaesthetic had been used, had not killed
the animal before recovery from its inﬂuence, 1- do not think
that the prosecution could hope for a conviction. In answer
to the argument that all operations by way of illustration to
lectures are prohibited by restriction 5, and that the only
proviso enlarging the restriction in the case of experiments
so described provides that anaesthetics must'be used, he could
appeal to his certiﬁcate under Provisoes 2 or 8, which are
general and unqualiﬁed in their terms.

And further, there is nothing to prevent a vivisector hold-
ing a certiﬁcate under Pi‘OVlS) 1 signed by A. and B. in
accordance with the provisions of section 11 obtaining afresh
certiﬁcate for the dispensing with the use of anaesthetics
signed by C. D. if A. B. should think that there was no
reason for the dispensing with them. Doctors proverbially
differ ! And who that has read the literature of the subject but
will recollect the evidence contained therein as to the dilliculty
of applying anaesthetics thoroughly, and regulating their force
and the duration of their effect; and as to the large class of
experiments, where a vivid sensation, or, in other words, a
lively feeling of agony being essential to the desired object,
anaesthetics frustrate that object?

Armed with a ceitiﬁcate under Proviso 2, there is no limit
either to the acuteness or continuance of the pain which a
vivisector may inﬂict, not only for the purpose of acquiring
knowledge which may be useful for saving or prolonging life,
or alleviating suffering, but of acquiring pl‘iysiological know-
ledge unconnected with such use. And if he also obtain a
certiﬁcate under Proviso 4-, all this not only holds good
but also applies to him if he wishes to test a former dis-
covery, alleged to have been made, and which is also wholly
unconnected with any humane or useful purpose. Students
of the subject are aware that an enormous proportion of
experiments are of this very class, and are undertaken for
the mere purpose of controversy.

Many experiments involved protracted agony, and, to per-
mit of their performance, we have Proviso 3. And here
again the certiﬁcate dispensing with the necessity of killing

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9

may be, probably will be, held with some or all of the certi-

ﬁcates under the other provisoes.

Thus we see that the holders of certiﬁcates may by law
inﬂict upon animals the severest cruelties of which the mind of
man can conceive by experimenting upon them alive, pro-
vided that the administering of anaesthetics, or the killing of
the animal before their effect has passed away would frustrate
the object of the experiment, and that it is performed with a
view to the advancement of physiological knowledge or know-
ledge which will be useful in saving or prolonging life or
alleviating suffering, or in order to test some former discovery
alleged to have been made with that View. Nor does the Act
place any limit to the number of animals which may be sacri-
ﬁced, whether under the sanction of a license or a certiﬁcate.

Such power being given to a vivisector by the Act, from
whom are these certiﬁcates and licenses to be obtained ?
Bearing in mind the Opinions held by the bulk of the medical
profession and by many of the scientiﬁc professors, we ﬁnd
that the signatures of medical men and scientiﬁc professors
alone are necessary to the applications for licenses and certi-
ﬁcates. The intending vivisector has indeed a large ﬁeld
from which to choose, and he will have no difficulty in ﬁnd-
ing many who will hold all the opinions which I have
ascribed to those who approve of vivisection.

I quote here what the Act says as to the persons from
whom licenses and certiﬁcates may be obtained, subject to
the discretionary power of the Secretary of State to grant or
withhold them. But of course he would think any applicant
whose application was duly signed, “qualiﬁed” under
section 8. By reading its terms on this head with the
provisoes we may see the general effect of the law.

By section 11 :~—-

“Any application for a license under this Act and a certifi-
“ cate given as in this Act mentioned, must be signed
“by one or more of the following persons, that is to
“ say :—

“ The President of the Royal Society.

“ The President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.

“ The President of the Royal Irish Academy.

“ The Presidents of the Royal Colleges of Surgeons in Lon.—
“ don, Edinburgh, or Dublin.

“ The Presidents of the Royal Colleges of Physicians in Lon-
“ don, Edinburgh, oi" Dublin.

“ The President of the General Medical Council. _

“ The President of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons
“ of Glasgow.

“ The President of the Royal College of Veterinary Sur-

 




 

fl 0

“ geons, or the President of the Royal Veterinarv
“College, London, but in the case only of an expe-
“ riment to be performed under anaesthetics,
“with a view to the advancement by new dis-
“ covery of veterinary science, and also (unless
“the applicant be a professor of physiology,
“medicine, anatomy, medical jurisprudence, materia
“ medica, or surgery in a university in Great Britain or
“Ireland, or in University College, London, or in a
“ college in Great Britain or Ireland, incorporated by
“ Roy al Charter) by a professor of physiology, medicine,
“anatomy, medical jurisprudence, materia medica, or
“ surgery in a university in Great Britain or Ireland, or
“ in University College, London, or in a college in Great
“Britain or Ireland incorporated by Royal Charter.
“ . . . A certiﬁcate under this section may be
“ given for such time, or for such series of experiments

‘as the person or persons signing the certiﬁcate may
“ think expedient.”

The general effect of all this legislation may be thus far
good. It may prevent the obscure aspirant after the trea-
sures of physiological knowledge, who is unacquainted with
any of these learned men, from vivisecting.

But it is difficult to believe that any man, however obscure,
Who impresses any two of the persons whose signatures are
necessary with an idea of his earnestness in the cause, will
receive a rebuff. And further, it must not be forgotten that
it is by the learned and best known scientiﬁc men that the
greatest cruelties are practised. The medical profession is
banded together in opposition to the anti-vivisection move-
ment, and these learned ofﬁcers can all countersign each
other’s application.

By section 4 :——
“ The substance known as urari or curare shall not for the
“purposes of this Act be deemed to be an anaesthetic.”
The received opinion with respect to curare is that it pre-
vents all muscular movement, but does not prevent the feeling
of pain. Indeed it is believed to inc1 ease that feeling. Its
use is here made peifectly lawful. ' The simnle licensee may
use it, remote from all observation. He may use it in con-
junction with an anaesthetic, and if he be careless in observ—
ing when the effect of the unresthetic has passed away leaving
the animal still under the influence of th e drug which makes it
conveniently silent and motionless, who shallb cori ect his cale-
lessness ‘? Indeed 1t is impracticable 111 the case of a totally
paralysed and motionless cre ature to ascertain when an anzes-
thetic takes effect. Thus c111are makes anaesthetics useless.
The holder of a certiﬁcate dispensing with the use of anaes-

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11

thetics may likewise use this terrible substance at his dis-
cretion. He may still the cries which would otherwise distract
and shock the nerves of his neighbours, or of the members of
the class before whom he is operating by way of illustration.
The next question is what animals may, and what may
not be operated upon ‘2
By section 5 1—— ,
“Notwithstanding anything in this Act contained, an
“experiment calculated to give pain shall not be per-
“ formed without amethetics on a dog or cat, except
“on such certificate being given as in this Act men-
“ tioned, stating, in addition to the statements herein-
“before required to be made in such certiﬁcate, that
“ for the reasons speciﬁed in the certiﬁcate the object
“of the experiment will be necessarily frustrated
“unless it is performed on an animal similar in con-
“ stitution and habits to a cat or dog, and no other
“animal is available for such experiment; and an
“experiment calculated to give pain shall not be per-
“formed on any horse, ass, or mule, except on such
“ certificate being given as in this Act mentioned that
“the object of the experiment will be necessarily
“frustrated unless it is performed on a horse, ass, or

“mule, and that no other animal is available for such
“ experiment.”

At ﬁrst sight this section seems to be intended to spare
dogs, cats, horses, asses and mules———viz., those animals
which are most domesticated, and which feel pain most
acutely, from Vivisection, where other animals will serve
the purpose. And the side note is in these words :—

“Special restrictions on painful experiments on dogs,
cats, '&c,”

But what is the real eﬂect of the section? Special re~
strictions indeed it places in the case of horses, asses, and
mules. No person without a certiﬁcate complying with the
terms of the section can experiment upon them at all, with
or without anaesthetics. But dogs and cats, the most highly
organised, and the most sensitive to pain of all animals
(specially useful, therefore, in cases where the nerves are
the objects of study), are handed over with no special re-
strictions at all to the simple licensee ! They are naturally
the favourite victims in those private laboratories, where,
screened from public scrutiny, Without fear of visits from
inspectors, the professors can carry into effect their physio-
logical investigations.

ld‘inally by section. 21 :~——-

“A prosecution under this Act against a licensed person

“shall not be instituted except with the assent in
“ writing of the Smrrotary of State.”

 

 




 

12

Thus, even the enforcement of the provisions of the Act
is left discretionary, though perhaps there is not much fear
but that public opinion would demand that the assent should be
given, if good cause were shown to believe that the Act
had been materially infringed. Still consent may be legally
refused.

Such is my interpretation of the law since the passing of
“the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876,” 39 nd 40 Vict., cap. 77.
I do not here suggest what alterations the law ought to
receive. I have conﬁned myself to giving a short state-
ment, free, I hope, from ambiguity, of what can, and what
cannot be done under the Act.

 




 

 

 




 




