 

 

 

 

*\

. J. H. Levy’s .

Pre‘cis and Evidence

With the .

. Suppressed Appendix, .

Notes, and Correspondence.

 

 

 

 

\ LONDON :

P. S. KING AND SON, Orchard House, 2 and 4, Great
Smith Street, Westminster, SW. A

THE PERSONAL RIGHTS ASSOCIATION,
II, Abbeville Road, SW.

 

 

 

 

 




 




the Royal Commission
on vivisection.

 

 

Mr. J. H. Levy’s ..

.. Précis and Evidence .

. With the

. . Suppressed Appendix, w 9

Notes, and Correspondence.

 

 

‘ LONDON:
P. 8. KING & SON, Orchard House, 2 & 4, Great Smith St,
W estminster, SW.
THE PERSON AI ., RIGHTS ASSOCIA'I‘ION,
II, Abbeville Road, S.V\7.

Price: ONE SHILLING, Net.

 




 

A-n‘
v—v _

 

PREFATORY NOTE.

 

 

l have prepared. the following account of my appear-
ance as a witness before the Royal Commission on
Vivisection, by desire of the Committee of the Personal
Rights Association. I have kept it within the narrowest

limits consistent with giving a full and lucid. account of
what occurred.
(1. l 1. rpm.

11, Abbe‘ville Roarl,‘
London, SW'.
3rd December, 1908.

 

 




m-

 

 

’7“ -

 

ROYAL C(I)l\/ll\/llSSION ON
VlVlSECTlON. '

 

 

inunns or EVIDENCE

OF

MR l.ll LEVY,

lilonowwy Secretary of the Personal Rights Association.

Late Examiner of School Accounts and Regislei/s at the Board of Educa—
tion ; late Lecturer on Logic and Economics at the Birkbeck College and
the City of London College.

 

‘ The moral defence of Vivisection is usually based on one
or other of the 'lollmving three grounds 3,“

(I) That animals vivisected within the scope of British
law feel no pain? or at all events not such a
degree of pain as to constitute cruelty.

(2) That the pain or cruelty inﬂicted is more than com—
pensated by the knowledge obtained, which
enables the medical. profession to lessen pain and
loss of life, so that the balance, on the whole, is
in. favour of happiness.

(3) That Vivisection is part of the procedure of Science,
and moralists have no right to dictate to Science,
but, on the contrary, should take their direction
from it.

‘Nith (I) I am not directly concerned. It turns upon a

3

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

question of fact on which I do not propose to give evidence.
If all vivisections~~~i.e., all experiments on animals (in—
cluding human beings) which. are pi’imci. facie cruel--~~-could
be shown to be devoid of cruelty, not only in themselves,
but also in their preliminaries and consequences, such.
moral objections as I have to urge against them would
vanish. For instance, if we could guarantee that all
animals vivisected were in a state of complete unconscious-
ness, which was maintained till their death, and that no
cruelty was involved in putting them into that state, no
censure would lie against this on the ground of cruelty.
Those who desire the total prohibition of V ivisection be—
lieve that no such guarantee can be obtained; and I hold
that, if Vivisection be legally tolerated in any form, it can
only be done (with due regard to such moral considerations
as ought to be enforced politically) by the most rigid exac-
tion of such guarantee.

But it is in (2) that lies the gravamen of the plea for
Vivisection. The notion that, though it may inflict some
suffering on animals, it is productive of good on the whole,
as part of the .1‘1eces8ary' procedure of therapeutics-~that
human suffering is lessened and human life saved by its aid
is undoubtedly the most persuasive of the statements in
its favour. Without this, I do not believe there is a case
for it which could be placed before Parliament with the
slightest show of success. But I hold that this plea is
ethically unsound, and have endeavoured to prove this,
against Huxley, in the annexed extract from my essays on
the “Ethics of Vivisection,” which extract I ask permission
to append to my evidence.

If such a plea (2) could be accepted, it could have no
special application to Vivisection or to cruelty to animals
generally. If one moral. law may be violated because, in a
speciﬁc instance, or set of instances, it is hoped or reckoned
that the doloriﬁc effect of the sin will be more than com—
pensated by its beatiﬁc effects for mankind, why may not
all other moral. laws be violated under like circumstances ?
In this matter, a single step involves the abrogation of the
whole moral law, as law. Why should we not lie, steal,
ravish, murder, if the hedonical calculus, applied to some
particular act, shows a balance in favour of happiness?

.Moreover, the plea. cannot be limited. to V ivisection of
the 10wer animals, and has not in practice so been limited ;
and the notion that the experiments should be restricted to
such as have some useful object, even in view, has been
repudiated. They must be undertaken, we have been told,
in a spirit of pure curiosity ' .

 




 

 

(‘3‘) The claim that pursuit of knowledge or hygiene must
not be limited by moral considerations I meet with the
statement that scientific motive is no justification of an act
which is otherwise to becondemned as immoral. Here
there can be no argument. The appeal isdirect to the
supremacy of the moral law.

THE ETHICS OF VIVISECTION.

(I) The position we take up on vivisection and other
questions of morals depends far less on our ethical theory
or theological beliefs than on the range and depth of our
sympathies, the extent of our knowledge, and our ability to
reason. As I have said elsewhere : “In ethical entreaty the
appeal is to sympathy, and that appeal can possibly be
effective only in so far as this feeling exists in the person to
Whom the appeal is made. And the feeling may exist in
him to so slight a degree as to be practically non-existent.
There are moral idiots just as there are intellectual ones;
and the latter do not all wear strait-waistcoats. The
Earlswood and other asylums only contain the worst
specimens of intellectual idiocy. There is no sharp line of
division between these poor creatures and the people out—
side. Earlswood is simply the last term of a series of which
the gradations are inﬁnitesimal. Man is an animal. who
tends to be rational: but the tendency, in. the vast majority
of cases, is very imperfectly realized. And, in the same
way, man tends to be sympathetic—~——to feel with the feeling
which is external to him; but, alas! the human race is a
long way from the general diffusion of a sympathy deep
enough to be an effective determinant of conduct, and wide
enough to include all beings with sensibility to pleasure
and pain.”

(2) If we are to meet scientific men and convince them
or their successors that they have made a mistake on this
question, we must do so on their own ground. To this I
shall apply myself. I shall take Huxley as my antagonist,
not only because he is by far the most illustrious of the
champions of vivisection, but because he was a moral
philosopher as well as a scientist, and his statement of
ethical doctrine is——-in my opinion—«fundamentally both
clear and sound. I cannot help regretting that he is not
with us to consider what I have. now to say. In 1888, I
wrote a refutation of a doctrine of his intimately connected
with that we are discussing, and sent him a copy of it. In
1893, in his Romanes Lectures on Evolution and Ethics, he
reversed that doctrine. Whether what I wrote had any
part in convincing him I cannot say; but I feel conﬁdent

5

//

 

 




 

V'wm’m“.n . aww,

 

 

 

that, were be alive now, I should induce him at least to
reconsider his position on vivisection.

(3) I regard Huxley’s Romanes Lecture as one of the-
landmarks of British ethics; and I shall. adopt it as a
standard by which to judge his conclusion on the Vivisec-
tion question. That lecture was really a reversal of the
former one, to which I have already referred. In the earlier
essay, Nature is represented as “always fair, just, and.
patient"~——as “a calm, strong angel who is playing for love,
as we say, and would rather lose than win.”* In the later
one, this adoration of Nature and her methods is gone. “If
there is one thing plainer than another,” we are told,]L “it
is that neither the pleasures nor the pains of life, in the
merely animal world, are distributed according to desert.
If there is a generalization from the facts of human life
which has the assent of thoughtful men in every age and
country, it is that the violator of ethical rules constantly
escapes the punishment which he deserves; that the wicked
ﬂourishes like a green bay tree, while the righteous begs his
bread; that the sins of the fathers are visited upon the
children; that, in the realm of nature, ignorance is
punished just as severely as wilful wrong; and that thou—
sands upon thousands of innocent beings suffer for the
crime, or the unintentional trespass, of one.”

(4) Now we have in these two essays not merely two
different modes of estimating what Huxley calls the cosmic
process, but two opposite, two contrary modes of regarding
that process. In the former nature is held up as our
exemplar—was strong, calm, just, patient, and loving. In
the latter we are told that “if there is one thing plainer
than another,” it is that the last three predicates~-—~just,
patient, lovin.g~——cannot be truthfully asserted of the cosmic
process, which is ruthless, brutal, and unjust. Huxley
shows-~in my opinion conclusively~~that the ﬁeld of
morality is a reclamation from a state of nature ; that we
are constantly dogged, in our attempts at moral improve
ment, by the limits and conditions imposed by nature on
our existence; and that to take the cosmic process as our
moral exemplar is fatal. to the ethical ideal. “It strikes
me,” he says, “that men who are accustomed to contem~
plate the active or passive extirpation of the weak, the un~
fortunate, and the superﬂuous; who justify that conduct on
the ground that it has the sanction of the cosmic process,
and is the only way of ensuring the progress of the race;
who, if they are consistent, must rank medicine among the

 

* Collected Essays, Vol. III., pp. 82—3. T Collected Essays, Vol. IX» 13.58-
6

 




 

black arts and count the physician a mischievous preserver
of the unlit; on whose matrimonial undertakings the
principles ol the stud have the chief influence; whose whole
lives, theielore, are an education in the noble art of
suppressing natural affection and sympathy, are not likely
to .have any large stock of these commodities left. But,
without them, there is no conscience, nor any restraint on
the conduct of men, except the calculation of self-interest,
the balancing of certain present gratiﬁcations against
doubtful future pains; and experience tells us'how much
that is worth.”*

(5) I cannot pursue this theme. I can only advise those
who wish to do so to compare the passage I have quoted
from Huxley’s essays on A Liberal Education, written in
1868, with his lecture on Evolution and Ethics, delivered in
1893, which they will ﬁnd in Volumes Ill. and IX. of his
Collected Essays}L Do not suppose that my point is the
inconsistency between these essays. It is no reproach to a
man that he made some progress in a quarter of a century.
\Ve are none of us born giants, either physically or
intellectually. So far from our indulging in any cheap
triumph, I think it ought to teach us humility and modesty
when we ﬁnd an intellectual prodigy like Huxley com—
pelled, not merely to change, but to reverse his point of
View on so important a question.

(\6) My irripeachment of Huxley's championship of
vivisection is that it is based on his earlier and incorrect
estimate of the character of the cosmic process ———an estimate
which he discaided 1n his riper yea1s, and in the rejection
of which, as he himself says, “Greek and Semite and Indian
are agreed.” He asserts of the domestic animals: “As
Hartley ﬁnely says “We seem to be in the place of God to
them’; and we may justly follow the precedents He sets
them in nature in our dealings with them. ’i Huxley was
an r'\gnostic , and I cannot help thinking that the name of
God is most unwarrantably diagged in here to give
theological support to a conclusion which I hold to be im-
moral, judged by Huxley’s own later standard. Moreover,
if, as he held, we cannot know that God exists, how can
we invoke “the precedents He sets in nature” in decision
of an ethical or any other question? Surely never did a
philosopher make a grosser logical blunder; and never was
a more terrible thing implicitly said of a deity than that
what the vivisector is to the lower animals that God is to us

 

* Collected Essays Vol IX. ,.pp 36- -.7 It Collected Essays, Vol. I, p 237.
t It would also be well to compare with these Professor Karl Pearson’s
Valional Life from the Stand/point of Science.

7

 




 

 

 

('7') This moral heresy, which is absolutely fatal to the
ethical standpoint, is constantly cropping up in the dicta of
modern scientists, and. has no doubt been largely in-
strumental in bringing about that reaction towards force
methods in all directions which is one of the saddest of the
experiences of the latter half of my own life. In the Lancet
of 30th September, 1905, Dr. Preston King proposed to
“experiment” on convicted murderers, and argues that,
after all, what he would try on them is “nothing more
than nature is doing around us every day to people who
are innocent of crime.” In the Standard of 4th June, 1885,
“Zoologist” wrote:-“As to the cruelty of. the operation
of depriving snails of their shells, I much doubt it, as the
shock would probably be at once fatal to the creature ; but
at all events we have Nature’s own authority for the pro-
ceeding, as any one who is in the habit of studying her out
of dOOrs may any day see during a country walk. Many a
song thrush have I watched at his favourite stone by the
wayside, hammering the dainty mollusk thereon and con-
siderable will be the pile of snail shells so produced in the
course of one day, no doubt much to the beneﬁt of our
summer cabbages.” Now I am not here concerned with
the dispute‘as to whether snails do or do not suffer in being
deprived of their shells; but when I am told that “we have
Nature’s own authority for the proceeding,” I must em-
phatically deny the ethical validity of this authority. As
John Stuart Mill said: ~~~~~ “The word nature has two
principal meanings; it either denotes the entire system of
things, with the aggregate of all their properties, or it
denotes things as they would. be, apart from human inter-
vention. In the ﬁrst of these senses, the doctrine that man
ought to follow nature is unmeaning, since man has no
power to do anything else . .; all his actions are done
through . . some one or many of nature’s physical or
mental laws. In the other sense of the term, the doctrine
that man ought to follow nature, or in other words ought
to make the spontaneous course of things the model of his
Voluntary actions, is equally irrational and immoral.
Irrational, because all. human action whatever consists in
altering, and all useful action in improving, the spontaneous
course of nature; immoral, because the course of natural
phenomena being replete with everything which, when
committed by human beings, is most worthy of abhorrence,
any one who endeavoured in his actions to imitate the
natural c0urse 0f things would be universally seen and
acknowledged. to be the wickedest of men.”*

* Three Essays 012 Religion, p. 64.
8

 




 

(‘8) When we divest Huxley‘s defence of vivisection of its
theological element, all that remains is that “ we may justly
follow the precedents” set “in nature in our dealings with
the lower animals. But, as I have already shown, he has
himself most eloquently and conclusively proved, against
his earlier self, that the precedents which he invokes are
both cruel and unjust. Therefore he has himself proved the
injustice and cruelty of the plea which he urges for vivisec-
tion. I have put him in the witness box against himself;
and, if I could put him also in the judge’s seat, I have so
much conﬁdence in the luminosity of his judgment, and in
his sense of fairness, that I feel certain he would not
attempt, in summing 'up, to avert the verdict which
posterity will undoubtedly give against him on this point.

(9) And this verdict, be it Observed, is merely against his
arguments and the conclusions he drew from them, not
against his own feeling on the subject. He confessed that
he could not perform the experiments on living and con—
scious animals which he considered necessary and proﬁtable
in the interests of the general happiness, and he never
followed any line of investigation in. which such experi-
ments are required§; but he was glad that other men
could do this, just as we are glad that men are to be found
with sufficient fortitude to perform the major surgical
operations, for which most of us would admit we have not
sufﬁcient strength of nerve. In arguing for vivisection he
was not pleading in his own defence. “I have felt it my
duty,” he wrote in a letter to Darwin, in I875, “to act as
counsel for Science”; but he expressed, in the most
emphatic way, his disgust at the declaration. of a leading
physiologist that he was indifferent to the amount of pain
he inflicted on animals, in his experiments. Huxley
declared his readiness to send this man to the treadmill.T
After this, and the declarations of Bentham and Mill, let
no one tell me that hedonistic ethics is against those who
would repress vivisectional cruelty. If Huxley went wrong
in his advocacy of vivisection, it was because (I) he based
his conclusions on an estimate of the cosmic process which
he afterwards discarded; (2) he was influenced by the
metempirical nature of the arguments which were usually
brought against vivisection and have really acted as a
support to it; and (3) because, in the application of the
hedonistic principle, he resorted to a method which I believe.
to be unsound, indefensible, and fraught with the gravest
consequences. About this method I shall have a few words
to say later on.

 

§ Life and Letters, Vol. I., p. 431. T Ibid, p. 440.
9

 




 

 

(Io) \Vhat did. Huxley hope to gain by vivisection? Let
me give you his own words—‘-—~words which I am sorry to
quote, as they appear to me to be inteniperate and
passionate ----- words which. were intended to wound the
opponents of vivisection and bolster up its medical
supporters, but which rebound to the discon'iﬁture of Huxley
himself and the practice of medicine in our days. This is
how he sets forth the profit which is to be attained by
vivisecticm : “ Unless the fanaticism of pl'iilozoic sentiment
overpowers the voice of philantl’n‘opy, and the love of dogs
and cats supersedes that of one’s neighbour, the progress of
experimental. physiology and pathology will, indubitably,
in course of time, place medicine and hyg'ene upon a
rational basis.”*

(II) This sentence shows, only to clearly, how, on this
subject, Huxley had allowed himself to be goaded into un-
reason and had “let go the painter.” Mark, in the ﬁrst
place, how philozoic sentiment is placed in, zmtithesis to '
philanthropy; as if it were not a matter of common
observation that kindness to the lower animals is one of
the best schools of philanthropy. Our consideration for
animals is not so much subtracted from a ﬁxed stock of
sympathy, resulting in less being available for our fellow
men and women. It is rather the sowing of a crop of
tender emotions. blessing the lower animals in its ﬁrst
result, but blessing humanity still. more. It may be said
that Huxley is not arguing against due consideration for
the lower animals, but only against “the fanaticism of
philozoic sentiment.” Now I will not assert that this
fanaticism is non—existent; but surely it is a negligible
quantity. The animals in question are altogetl’ier in our
power. They have no means of guarding themselves
against the most cruel treatment. They cannot even speak
in their own defence. Their mute appeal to our sympathies
is their only shield; and who that knows what mankind
still is, and is likely long to remain, will. consider this more
than a feeble guarantee against the worst brutalities?
Alas! so far from the danger coming from the redundance
of sympathy with “our poor relations," .it is just the reverse.
Those are very farsighted who can look forward to the
time when man will toe the line of justice in his treatment
of the lower animals. Those who are most humane are
ever dogged by the difﬁculty of maintaining their fitness
for the struggle in that cosmic process whose true nature
Huxley recognised only towards the close of his career-ma
struggle from which they cannot escape except by being

» * C::>Zleclcd Essays, Vol. l.,,p. 123.

I O

 




 

allowed to live as members of a community in. the main
otherwise composed.

(12) There has never been any satisfactory demonstration
of scientiﬁc gain by the cruelties of vivisection. I shall
show you that, even if there were such gain, this would. not
constitute a moral justiﬁcation of the practice; but I
challenge proof that there has been any such gain. Those
who assert it seem not to realize the burden of proof which
rests on them. Even if it were proved that some discovery
had been made by vivisectional methods, it would still have
to be shown that the same end could not have been attained
otherwise. Suppose I allow that, as Huxley claims, “any
one who is acquainted with the history of science is aware
that not a single one of all the great truths of modern
pl‘iysiology has been established otherwise than by experi-
ment on living thingsW—suppose I allow this, that these
experiments have all. been cruel ones, and that Huxley be
allowed to mark out what are “the great truths of modern
physiology”—~~-—even then the argument is merely cum hoc

ergo propter hoc. If Londoners had been invariably in the.

habit of travelling to Hampton Court via, Gravesend, this
would. not prove that any advantage they gained was
dependent on the Gravesend route, that there existed no
other, or that there was not a better one. If Newton,
instead of generalizing the law of gravitation (as the tale
goes) from the fall of an apple, had tried the experiment by
throwing his mother out of a third ﬂoor window, it would
not have followed. that the discovery of the great physical
law was due to this circumstance; and. no British tribunal
would accept the la w of gravitation as a set-off or justiﬁca—
tion of his crime.

(I3) If the vivisectional calculus were legitimate, why
should not a Tito Melema argue that search for his
benefactor would probably result in hedonic loss? it is
doubtful whether there is any vice or crime, individual acts
of which could not be defended if proximate hedonic gain
were taken as an adequate justiﬁcation.

(r4) laltogether deny that hedonistic ethics is properly
applied by counting up the loss and gain on particular acts
that, in this or any other question of morals, “the matter

resolves itself into a direct balancing.Wk If this were
so, hedonistic ethics would be logically untenable. Do not
think. I am propounding a new principle. “According to
that theory,” as Austin said in the ﬁrst half of the nineteenth
century, “our conduct would conform to rules inferred from
the tendencies of actions, but would not be determined. by

* Medical Press, 4th September, 1901, p. 248.

 

II

 

 

 




 

 

 

a direct resort to the principle of general utility. Utility
would be the test of our conduct ultimately, but not
immediately , the immediate test of the rules to which our
conduct would conform, but not the immediate test of
speciﬁc or individual actions. Our rules would be fashioned
on utility, our conduct on our rules. ”T

(15) Our ultimate principle of morals, as Austin says,
must not be directly applied to speciﬁc circumstances We
must deduce f1om it our mediate principles, the most im—
portant of which are the assertion of rig hts. And here
allow me to say that this question of animal rights cannot
be evaded; for they are inseparable from personal rights.
If animals have no rights which it is oui duty, as a political
body, to defend, then every prosecution for cruelty to ani—
mals is an aggression on human 1ights. We must, there-
fore, either condemn every effort of the State to prevent the
tortiire of any sentient being outside of the human race, 01
we must acknowledge that rights do not belong exclusively
to our own sweet selves, and must assume the duty which
comes with this acknowledgment.

(16) Let us now return to the point from which I have
somewhat dig1essed. I assert that conduct is not to be
morally estimated ad hocm that it is false ethics to attempt
to judge actions singly, by draw mg up what purports to be
an hedonic balance sheet, usuallyb with all the subjective
effects of the act left out. And vxhat are those subJective
effects? As I have already told you, Huxley says, in another
connection, that men “whose whole lives . . are an
education in the noble art of suppressing natural affection
and sympathy, are not likely to have any large stock of
these commodities left. But, without them, there is no
conscience, nor any restraint on the conduct of men, except
the calculation of self—interest, the balancing of certain
present gratiﬁcations against doubtful future pains, and
experience tells us how much that is worth 5;

(17) If we apply the hedonic test to speciﬁc actions, the
moral law, as law, is orone. Law, whether natuial or
moral, implies generality About two decadesa ago, two
men were tried f01 murder, under circumstances most
instructive on. the point which I am discussing. A ship,

 

T The Province of jurisprudence Dciewnined (Edition of 1832), p. 47.

i Collected Essays, Vol. lX., p. 37. It is astonishing to find Miss FranceS

-‘ Power Cobbe asserting that, if the hedonic theory of morals were true:

“ we ought’to smother all our sickly children offhand.” (The Afodem

Rack, p. 32.) Did she really think this practice would tend to increase

thesum of happiness? Does not this assertion show that she never
fairly Judged the moral principle which she thus interpreted?

I”)

4.4

 




 

 

 

named the Mignonette, was wrecked, and three men and a
boy escaped in a boat. After being seventeen. days without
food and ﬁve without water, two of the men resolved to
kill the boy, which they did on the next day. They fed on
the body, and after four days of this horrid diet, were picked
up by a passing vessel. The jury found that the men killed
the boy, but that they and he would probably have died
had they not done so; and it was left to the Court to decide
whether or not this constituted murder. -

(18) Now here we have a case which, if you apply what
I have called the vivisectional calculus, must result in the
justiﬁcation Of the men. Debit side, one boy killed who-
\vvould probably have died in any case; credit side, the lives
of three men with families; balance, a considerable one of
proﬁt. But what said the Court? The late Lord
Coleridge was Lord Chief Justice, and it fell to his lot to
deliver a most memorable judgment :-~~~-“lt is admitted that
the deliberate killing of this unoflending and unresisting
boy was clearly murder, unless the killing can be justiﬁed
by some well recognized excuse admitted by the law. It is
further admitted that there was in this case no such excuse,
unless the killing was justiﬁed by what has been called
necessity; but the temptation to the act which existed here
was not what the law has ever called necessity. Nor is this
to be regretted. Law and morality are not the same;
many things may be immoral which are not necessarily
illegal; yet the absolute divorce of the law from morality
would be a fatal consequence, and such divorce would
follow if the temptation to murder in this case were to be-
held by law an absolute defence of it. It is not so. To
preserve one’s life is, generally speaking, a duty; but it
may be the plainest duty, the highest duty, to sacriﬁce it.
\Var is full of instances in which it is a man’s duty not to
live but to die. It would be a very easy and cheap display
of common-place learning to quote from Greek and Latin
authors passage after passage in which the duty of dying
l’or others has been laid down in glowing and emphatic
language as resulting from the principles of heathen ethics.
It is enough, in a Christian country, to remind ourselves of"
the duty~—~—which we propose to follow~-of the duty in case
of shipwreck of a captain to his crew, of the crew to the
passengers, of soldiers to women and children—as in the-
noble case of the Birkenhead. These duties impose on men
the moral. necessity not of preservation, but of the sacriﬁce
of their lives for others, from which in no country—«least of”
all, it is to be hoped, in Englanrim—amen will shrink, as in-
deed they have not shrunk. It is not correct, therefore, to-

I3.

 




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

say that thereis an absolute and unqualiﬁed necessity to
preserve one’s life. It is not needful to point out the awful
danger of admitting the principle which has been con—
tended for. \\ ho is to be the judge of this sort of
necessity? By what measure is the comparative value of
lives to be measured? Is it to be strength, or intellect, or
what? It is plain that the principle leaves to him who is
to proﬁt by it to determine the necessitv which will justify
him in deliberately taking another life to save his own
“ So spake the ﬁend,

And by the tyrants plea necessity

lec used his devilish deeds.”

(19) “In this case the weakest, the youngest, the most
unresisting was chosen. \\ as it more necessary to kill
him than0 one of the grown men? lhe answer must be
‘No.’ It is not suggested in this particular case that the
deeds were ‘devilish,’ but it is quite plain that such
principles, once admitted, might be ma de the legal cloak
for unbridled passion and atrocious crimes.

(20) Ihe Cori1t, therefore, decided the case to be one of
murder. Accmdiirg to Iord Chief lustice Coleridge, law
and morality agree t3that what would. otherwise be a crime
is not justiﬁed by the plea of a speciﬁc balance of ad-
vantage. This is an implicit <':(.)11den’111ation of the ethics of.
vivisection.

(21) )Iet us suppose a costermr'n'iger of a philc sophical
turn of mind summoned before a police iriagistrate 1’01
working his donkey while in an unﬁt condition. [he case
is pioved against him and he 1eplies . ~ “I admit, your
worship, that I worked this donkey when not in a proper
condition to do his work. I know it was cruel to do that,
and I was very sorry to have to do it. But I have a sick
wife and children at home, wanting bread; and I argued
that the pain suffered by the animal would be much more
than counterbalanced by the pain from which I would
relieve them.” Magistrate: “We cannot allow this plea."
Costermonger: “Exactly; but if I sold my donkey to a
doctor, and he performed all sorts of: vile experiments on
him, causing him. a hundred~fold more pain than I have;
and if he justiﬁed his act by some speculative advantage
which he hoped to gain some time or other, then the law
which punishes me would not only leave him unpunished,
but would give him a license for his crime. \Vhy has this
donkey an indefeasible right, against me, not to be cruelly
treated, but not the same indefeasible right against another
man? For my lesser inhumanity, for 11 hicl I can plead
the excuse of a more than compensating and verifiable

I4

   
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  

  
   




advantage, I am. punished; while the so-called. scientiﬁc
man, who often performs fool’s experiments, with no
particular end in view, and pleads some conjectural
indirect gain, has the shield of the State thrown over him,
and poses as a benefactor to mankind.”

(22) If the moral doctrine which underlies vivisection
were true, it would have no exclusive application to the
lower animals; and it has had no such exclusive applica-
tion. The gap between the “lower” animals and the
“ lower” races of mankind is easily bridged over, and there
is not much trouble in passing from them to the “ lower
classes of our own race or country. If there is any validity
in vivisectionist logic, it cannot stay at the lower animals.
Why should. we not vivisect our criminals, idiots, lunatics,
babes? Dr. de W'atteville wrote to the Standard/(11’k that
“medical men should not attempt to conceal from the
public the debt of. gratitude they owe to the cor 0m vilia
in our hospitals, whose “inmates are made use of otherwise
than for treatment” .; and he denied the competency of the
public to judge “of any iin'vestigaticm in corn (me vili.”

(23) The chief difﬁculty of stating the case for moral.
antagonism to vivisection is that inherent in all ethical
teaching. Persons are not in the habit of reasoning out
their moral conclusicms, which, in almost all cases, rest
directly on feeling or on the pressure of the social environ—
ment. Let anybody who doubts this ask himself why he
objects to cannibalism. He will probably ﬁnd--~~lf he has
sufﬁcient analytic ability to find anytl‘iing of the sort ~ that
man-eating has never presented itself to him as a matter to
be reasoned about, and that he is somewhat shocked even
at its being thought of in this way. The id ea of argument

Euclid notwithstanding~~~ is closely associated in the
popular mind with that of uncertz-iinty. Most people are,
such bad reasoners that they almost instinctively seek some
other guide. Some of my good friends think that they
have discovered this guide, and would say that the con-
demnation of cannibalism is intuitive. But this, I opine,
only means that they recognize a very pronounced dis-
position to this effect in themselves and in others with
whom they are acquainted, and are both unable and
indisposed to account for it. It has not existed in all.
human beings. Even members of the more civilized races
have occasionally resorted to eating their comrades in case
of shipwreck, and thought themselves justiﬁed in doing so.
I know what my own feeling was, forty-five years ago,
towards eating pork, and what is the feeling of sortie of my

*

23rd November, 1883.

15

 




 

, l
l l
' i
o ,l
“ ‘t l
. k, W
i I,
,. '
i l ‘
l
i. ,
i l
‘ l H
. i; m
i l'
- i
. ,
I _
. l i
l x
:j i,
. i w
I
l l
v
. ' b
vl
, .1
, ; i
‘ v
.. , , H
. :_‘i u
' . 1 ., l v
- i . l
l i l'
, i
, u Ii
. > A j .
. ,y
,u ,1 , y
‘ . ' l
- .i
. . j .
'. ‘ -.'I i i
, , ., i i,
,'l .
' ' V.‘ I ll
\
. ‘ i
b
,' . ‘1
" i l
1 l
> ,
. i ii
. .‘1
i in
~ l
. i, i
- ' i‘ i.
l l
. -- m
' ,i ll
, .
. i M
. . ht
.- l
i.
, A, i
. x l
. ,r
» r
. i
. .. Hi
i
' \‘l
“ i
, ' . = ‘: ‘ui‘
. . i
' : m
‘ ..‘ i
V . " 5 i
' . r
- i y .
y) i
- ': : ‘u
. ‘. ,l
. ,4 , f
., ,
‘ i l
'1 i: .

 

 

 

 

non-flesh—eating friends towards feeding, say, on roast
lamb. In both these cases, the sentiment is strictly akin to
that with which ordinary folk in Europe regard canni-
balism.

(’24) Now, just as I. believe that the feeling against
feeding on human beings admits of explanation and
support by the method of comparison and analysis, so I
hold that the sentiment, the rapidly growing sentiment of
opposition to vivisection, no doubt very unphilosophically
held by very many of those who are animated by it, may
be treated in the same way; and that its scientiﬁc
justiﬁcation or condemnation must come as a result of that
ordeal. The masses of mankind, on the one side and on
theother, may be incapable of ﬁndingm—very many of them
even of understanding~-——~the solution of these problems;
but solved they must be, unless we are content, in the most
important matters, blindly to follow impulse. It is no
detraction from the value of scientiﬁc ethics that its con-.
clusions are thus worked out. The truth is that the
original. thinking of. mankind, on all subjects, has always
been done by a few individuals; and I see no signs of a
change in this respect. It, therefore, the great majority of
Anti—Vivisectionists have not thought out for themselves
the logic of their position, they are only in the same
position as the like majority on the other side, and, indeed,
as all save a small minority on all fundan'iental questions.
whatever.

(25) My present appeal is to scientific men, and especially
to medical men. I do not despair of winning them over to-
my position on this question. I throw down to them. a
friendly challenge to face that position. “7 ill they dare to
assert that our hatred of cruelty to animals, which has so
greatly increased since the time of our cock—fighting grand—
fathers, has come to a standstill just at the point which it
has now reached? Has moral evolution in this respect
exactly reached its zenith in the year 1907? \Vhat is the
probability of this? Cannot any man in whom there is a
scintilla of the scientiﬁc spirit see the utter unlikelihood of
such a sudden halt? And, if this is not to be, what will be
the line of evolution P Who cannot see that this series has
been and. will continue to be one of widening and deepen-
ing sympathies ---------- of sympathies which will extend and
become intensified till they include every creature that can
feel a pleasure or a pangw-~~til_l those creatures are cared for
{other things equal) in proportion. to their sensibility ?

(26) This, at all. events, is the vista of moral progress as
I see it; and I have so much conﬁdence in its convincing

1‘6

 




 

 

power with men and women who are used to philosophic
tlmught, that I would be almost content to put it before
them and take the consequences. See how far we have
moved during the last century-Ma triﬂing time in the
history of humanity. In November, 1827, Blackwood’s
.llcigazine asserted that “the cock-pit was not less a school
for valour than for truth, and modesty, and. morality, and.
every other manly and high—spirited virtue.” Who wouhl
dare to write thus now? The absurdity of this pretended
gain through cruelty would not be contested. But how
long will it be before the alleged gain through vivisectional
cruelty is recognized as equally preposterous?

(:27) There are one or two points VVlllCl’I it is necessary
here to elaborate. In the ﬁrst place, it is argued that Anti-
\"ivisectionists appeal to sentiment. This is quite true. It
is equally true that Vivisectionists appeal to sentiment—~a
somewhat different sentiment, almost invariably a narrower
and more selﬁsh one, but sentiment still. All attempts to
influence the will must necessarily be made by addressing
oneself, directly or indirectly, to the emotions. It is the
attempt to cast emotion into the logical bztilance~~and thus
to prevent the unbiassed weighing of evidence—~which is
discreditable. But all conduct, of whatever kind, is guided.
by feeling, and has feeling for its end. The greatest
philosopher must say with Manfred :-~—«~

“ The Tree of Knowledge is not that of Life.

Philosophy and science, and the springs

Of wonder, and the wisdom of the world,

I have essayed ; and in my mind there is

A power to make these subject to itself.”
“The emotions,” says Herbert Spencer, “are the masters,
the intellect is the servant. The guidance of our acts
through perception and reason has for its end the satisfac—
tion of feelings, which at once prompts the acts and yield
the energy for the performance of the acts; for the
exertions daily gone through, whether accompanied by
agreeable or disagreeable feelings, are gone through that
certain other feelings may be obtained or avoided.”

(:28) The deprecation of appeals to feeling is, therefore,
nonsense. It ignores one of the fundamental. facts of our
consciousness. In reality, it is a cloaked deprecation of an
appeal to morals. 'W e are asked to decide the matter by a
proﬁt and loss account drawn up ad 1100, after the fashion
of the worst kind of company promoter, immense gains
being prmnised in an indeﬁnite future, and the present cost
being slurred over.

(do) One of the latest and the most candid of Vivisectors,

17

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l)r. Smidovich, has written a book m— Confessions of a
Physician» which is most illuminating on the vivisectirm
question. He cmnmenced with a full, perhaps with an
overpowering, conviction. of the extent of human suffering;
and the subsequent account which he gives of medical
effort inits alleviation leaves on. the mind the impressimi
that the net result of medical intervention, as at present
carried out, is rather to aggravate than. to. lessen. the sum
of that suffering, although a few favoured persons may get
some relief.

(30) What effect had all this on the mind of our author?
He speaks of the “days of doubt and disillusion ” and the
“special solace” which he found. “in scientific work."
\Vhat was the nature of this “ scientific ” solace?

(31) “Among other things,” he says, “I I‘Jursued re-
searches as to the part played by the spleen in resisting
infectious diseases. 'l‘wo monkeys of Macacus species were
purchased by our laboratory for inoculation with recurrent
typhoid fever. During the three weeks they remained with
us, before the commencement of our experiments, I had
time to become greatly attached to them, especially to the
male specimen, whom we had named ‘Stepka.’

‘ (32) “Whenever I entered the laboratory he used to rush
up to the front bars of his roomy cage :in expectation of a
present of sugar. After having fed my pets, I used to let
them out. ,The female, ‘Jilda,’ was more timid: she
would run about the ﬂoor clumsily, looking round at me in
fear. If I made a slight movement, she would turn and fly
back to the cage. ‘Stepka,’ however, treated me quite as
a familiar chum. As soon as I sat down he would
immediately clan'iber on to my knees and begin to search
my pockets, eyebrows lifted, and his large close-set eyes
peering forth with cmnical seriousness. Pulling my per-
cussional mallet from my breast pocket, he would set up a
surprised cry, his eyes open wide, and then commence to
examine the bright instrument witl‘i minute curiosity.

(33) “After having gazed his fill, ‘Stepka’ would drop
the hannner on to the floor, and with the same n'ielancholy
seriousness, as if performing a necessary but very tiresome
task, proceed with his search of my person. Carefully
taking me by the heard he would remove my glasses with his
thin brown ﬁngers. . . . But all this soon palls on him.
‘Stepka’ climbs up on to my shoulder, sighs, looks about
him, then, espying a corked. phi al, of a sudden—mquicl; as a
dart—”springs on to the table ; his favourite amusement is
the uncorking of bottles. ‘Stepka’ quickly and neatly
draws the stopper, stows it away in his cheek-pouch, and

I8

 




 

 

 

tries to escape to the ceiling via the blinds ; he knows that
I will deprive him_of his prize. l capture him half— way.

_ (34) “ ‘ 'l‘si-tsi-tsi,’ he chatters with (:lispleasure, drawing
in his head, screwing up his eyes, and trying to get away.
I possess myself of his plaything. ‘ Stepka ’ contemplates
the scene sorrowfully. Suddenly his eyes brighten; he
jumps on to the window-sill and begins to Chatter ex-
citedly. Outside a cab is drawn up in the street; ‘Stepka’
cranes his neck, and stares at the horse with insatiable
inquisitiveness. I stroke him, but he ren’ioves my hand
impatiently with his own little paw, settles down more
comfortably, and continues to scrutinize the horse. A dog
runs across the street. ‘Stepka’ is all alert, the fur on his
neck and back bristling up, his eyes become restless, and
he again. commences his chattering, greatly excited, and
peers ﬁrst through one pane, then through another. The
dog runs away. ‘Stepka’ scampers across the long table,
upsetting g asses, and. follows the dog out of sight, from
w in (l( )w to window.

(55) “ One might have passed whole hours in the rascal’s
company without l,)eing bored. I felt that a bond of
common sympathy united us, and that we had arrived at
.a mutual understanding.

I

(\36) “I did not like the idea of cutting out his spleen
myself, and a comrade perfm‘med the task for me. When
the wound healed, I inoculated ‘Stepka’ with typhoid.
When I entered. the laboratory now, ‘Stepka’ no more
rushed to the bars as of yore; weak and ruffled, he sat
motionless in his cage, staring at me with strange darkened
eyes; every day he got worse; when he essayed to climb
-on to his perch, his hands failed him, he lost his hold and
fell to the bottom of his dwelling. .lf‘inally he became too
weak to rise at all; wasted, he lay still with. grinning
teeth, and moaned. hoarsely. And it was before my eyes
that ‘Stepka’ died.” ' .- ,

(:37) After reading this incident with the monkeys, it
may be thought that in Dr. Sinidmrich we have simply
come across one of those brutal natures which revel in the
pains inﬂicted on others. This would be a great mistake.
The author is evidently a man of intensely sympathetic
disposition ; and, if he is capable of poisoning his
“familiar chum ” and then watching his death agonies—wif
he satisfies himself with handing over to a comrade the
task of cruelly mutilating the little cornpaniOn whom he
so affectionately describes and of whom he says :———“ I felt
that a bond of common sympathy united us, and that we
had arrived at a mutual understanding’.’——it is because he

19

 




  
 
   
    
  

 

 

has sophisticated his conscience with the equivocations

and special pleading of Vivisectionisrn.. And this is the

worst aspect: of the matter. CU’V’VHPH'O optimi pessima.
Not only does vivisection draw to itself those who feel a
lust of cruelty, but it perverts and (lchases some of the best
natures.

(38) In Dr. Sn‘1idovich’s case this dehasement seems not
to have extended to his 'vei“(,u:ity. He endeavours to be
truthful. “'l‘he sufferings of the animals,” he says, “are
truly horrible~~and sympathy with them is not sentiment-
ality.” Again, he does not pretend that the “experi-
ments ” which. result in this awful sull'ering have necessarily
any practical end, though he contends that practical results.
may some day supervene, as in the case of other sciences.
“Science,” he says, “is only then science when its pursuit
is unfettered by any cmgitlitions of direct practical utility.
Electricity remained for a long time but a ‘curious natural
phenomenon’ devoid of all practical. importance." His
justiﬁcation of the l‘iorrors he portrays is that they are
necessary for medical science.

(:39) Again and again he returns to this point. He
quotes from the memoirs of Pirogolf, an eminent Russian
medical man :~-~“ln my younger days I was pitiless to
suffering. One day, as I remember, this indifference to the
agony of animals undergoing vivisection struck me witl'i
such force that, with my knife still in my hand, I in-
voluntarily exclaimed, turning to the comrade who was
assisting me: ‘Why, at this rate one might cut a man’s
throat.’ Yes, much can be said in favour of and against
vivisection. There can be no doubt that it is an important
aid to science. . . . But science does not entirely fill
the life of man ; the enthusiasm of youth and the ripeness.
of manhood pass, and another period of life ensues, and
with it an inner call for introspection ; and it is then that
the recollection of the violence used upon, the tortures in-
flicted on, and the sufferings caused to another creature
commence to pull at one’s heart-strings involuntarily. It
seems to have been the same with the great Haller; so it
was With me,l must confess; and in these later years I
would never be able to bring myself to perform the same
cruel experiments upon animals which at one time I
carried out so zealously and with such nonchalance."

(40) To this Dr. Smidovich says :—-~-“ None of this can be-
denied. M az's que fair/e P To renounce vivisection were to,
place the future of medicine in jeopardy, to condemn us
doctors for ever to the uncertain and barren paths of
clinical obServation.” Now, even if this were true, it

20

 

  




 

  

would not justify the barbarities which are confeSsed.
But it is not true. Dr. Smidovich himself, in his cooler
moments, would scarcely speak of clinical observation as
barren. Moreover, :if clinical observation has not yielded
better results, this is mainly to be attributed to the fact that
experimental medicine has sent its votaries on a wrong track.
As one of the ablest thinkers on medical matters has said,
it is not so much the amassing of further facts that is
wanted as the ability to think out the logical. consequences
of the facts already within our knowledge. A few pages
after the one on which our last quotation appears, our
author says :m—“Vivisection is indispensable to medical
science--——only ignorant, or very unprincipled, people can
deny this.” This is mere hard swearing, and demonstrates
nothingwexcept Dr. Smidovich’s ability to work himself
up into a state of dogmatic excitement. He adds :———“ The
foregoing chapters have shown how manifold is the
necessity of vivisection in our science.” The foregoing
chapters show nothing of the kind. The question whether
a given body of evidence proves a given conclusion is not a
medical question, but a logical one. After carefully
reading the chapters to which he refers as showing the
medical necessity of vivisection, not only do I not ﬁnd this,
but I am unable to understand, except on the ground of
pan/ti pris, how Dr. Smidovich has found it there.

(41) l have left for the conclusion what is, perhaps, the
most terrible chapter in this book—Chapter VIII., which
is devoted to experiments on living human beings. To
give any adequate account of. this would be impossible. Dr.
Smidovich professes to restrict himself to experiments in
one particular class of diseases, of which he says 2—“ Not
a single one of them can be transmitted to the lower
animals. Owing to this, many questions which, in other
branches of medicine, find their answer in experiments on
animals, can, in venerology, only be decided through
human inoculation; and venerologists have not hesitated
to take the plunge : crime stains every step made by their
science.” ' i

(’42) Why should they not make this plunge? Why
should they not indulge in crime to their hearts’ content ?
They, no doubt, like the vivisectors of animals, are ready
to promise a large speculative result in the future. If no
direct human advantages are obtained, they can plead that
science must be pursued for its own sake. Against the few
women and men, boys and girls, to whom they have com-
municated diseases held in such loathing that society
endeavours to banish their very names, they can put the

’21

 
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

myriads who will. benefit some day ~~~~~~~ date a little uncertain
-~~—~by their discoveries. If this sort of balancing is ethically
valid in the case of experiments on animals, why not also
in the case of experiments on human beings ? If scientiﬁc
I'l'lOlL‘l'V’G justifies cruelty in the one case, why not in the-
other? Of this we may be certain~~that the society which
tolerates the one will. get the other for its reward.

('43) Dr. Smidovich gives references to the papers and
books in wnich these 3Xperiments have been published;
but he gives only a san'iple of these recorded cases, and for
every recorded case there have probably been very many
unrecorded ones. And. so we read how l3. ll‘raenkel
“inoculated the eyes of infants ” and 'l‘ischendorff “ inocu—
lated the eyes of atrophic children"; how the lectures of
\Nilliam \Nallace, the Dublin pl'iysician, “a re remarkable for
the classical shamelessness with which their author tells us
of his criminal experiments in inoculating healthy people
with”~~-~—Athe disease against which the CD. Acts were
chieﬂy directed; how Waller communicated the same
disease to a boy of 12 and a girl. of 15, and, Professor
Lindwurm inoculated. with. it 5 women lying in his
hospital, one of these being 71 years old; how Professor
V. M. 'l‘arnovsky, after eighteen attempts, succeeded in
inoculatinga woman with the same malady; how Eugen
ltlahn transplanted a portion of a cancer from the affected
breast of a woman. to her healthy breast. Now suppose
this surgeon could demonstrate to you, with mathematical
rigidity, that the chances of beneﬁt to humanity from this
experiment in cancer-grafting equalled the saving of ﬁfty
lives, at least, would you accept this as a justification of
what he did? and if not, why not?

(44) These are but a few of the cases mentioned by Dr.
Smidovich. He pleads that “the existence of a few
hundred doctors to whom the sick are merely so many
objects for experiment does not justify the branding
of the entire profession.” The entire profession ?
No ! Happily there are men in that profession
to whom. these enormities-—~ whether practised on man
or beast—~77 are as hateful. as they are to us. But the pro~
l‘ession, in its corporate capacity, must be held responsi—
ble for these practices. Dr. Smidovich himself speaks of
“the shameful indifference with. which the medical world
contemplates such atrocities.” He says :—~—‘“This martyr—
ology of the unhappy patients offered up as Victims to
science was not compiled by any underhand meanswthe
culprits publicly blazoned their own infamy in black and
white. One would suppose that the mere fact of publica-

’3’)

gal—I

 

 




 

 

 

tion of such experiments would rnalre their repetition
utterly impossible, the first to attempt anything of the kind.
being cast for ever from the n'iedical corporation! But, un-
fortunately, this is not so. \N’itl‘i heads proudly erect, these
bizarre disciples of science proceed on their way without
encountering any effective infiriositirni, either from their
colleagues or the medical Press.”

(4-5:) It was in the face ol’ this state of things—Wperhaps
unknown to him—wtl’iat 'lﬁ'iluxley talked about the danger of
pllllOZOlC sentiment overpoweririg the voice of philan-
thropy! What philanthropic gentleniien these Vivisectors
tend to become when they have thrown over “fanaticism
of philozoic sentiment”! But we are told that “experi-
mental physiology and pathology”ms-vie. Vivisection-~~
will, if unhindered, “ indubitably, in course of time, place
inerflicine and hygiene on a rational basis." I hope my
fellow citizens will decline to pay the price asked for this
very dubious benefit. I. am very anxious to see medicine
placed on a rational basis; but .l am still. more anxious
that it should be placed on a righteous basis. lhave no
faith in the pursuit of health, or any other good, mundane
or extramundane, by the road of cruelty and injustice.
The moment we narrow our purview to some special end,
irrespective of that it'unt‘larnental principle of conduct on
which all human action should be l’ocussed, we have
commenced our downward march.

(:46) “ He who,” said Coleridge, “begins by loving
Christianity better than truth, will proceed. by loving his
own sect or church better than Christianity, and will end
by loving himself better than all.” ' So say I, that he who
begins by loving niiankind better than that sentient
existence of which man forms but a part, will tend to love
his own nation better than ni‘iankind, his own class or
l2LI],’]il.}’ better than his nation, and his most unworthy self
best of all.

L)
c

 




 

 

 

 

 

BEFORE THE EXAMINATION.

 

When the Royal Commission on Vivisection was in-
stituted, the Committee of the Personal Rights Association
made application that 1, their Honorary Secretary, should
be allowed to give evidence on the ethics of the question.
This was met by the Commission drawing our attention to
the terms of Reference*-———~as printed in the Londnn Gazette
of 18th September, 1906 and enquiring on what points we
would desire our representative to give evidence. To this,
I, on behalf of my Committee, replied :——-“I suppose the
Commissioners will themselves interpret the terms of
Reference, the first of which seems somewhat indeﬁnite.
If by ‘the practice of subjecting live animals to experiments,
whether by vivisection or otherwise’ is meant the technique
of this proced.ure~—»-~the particulars of the conduct of vivi-
sectors or others in experiments on live animalsmthen l, as
the representative of the Personal Rights Association,
would have nothing to sax on the ﬁrst clause of the terms
of Reference. But if that clause is understood to include
all considerations which are necessary in order to enable
the Commissioners ‘to report whether any, and if so what,
changes are desirable,’ then the evidence that I should be
able to give, though very brief, would be very i'naterial.
What I should endeavour to establish is (I) that scientific
motive is no justiﬁcation of an act which would, apart from
such motive, be condemned. as cruel ; and (2) that the State
should not license one set of men, said to be actuated by
scientiﬁc motives, to do what it punishes in others, not so
licensed, as criminal. If the Commission decide that such

 

 

 

 

”:3" The terms of Reference arew-v-“To inquire into and report upon
the practice of subjecting live animals to experiments, whether by
vivis‘ection or otherwise; and also to inquire into the law relating to
that practice, and its administration; and to report whether any, and if
so what, changes are desirable.”

24

 




 

  

ethical considerations do not come within the "terms of
Reference, then I do not understand how a report drawn up
with such considerations ignored could possibly have any
cogency with a community which has recognized. that
animals have rights, and has enforced those rights by penal
sanctions.”

To this the Secretary of the Commission replied that “it
is not the intention of the Commission to exclude evidence
in support of the ‘ethical’ objections to vivisection,” and
I was placed on the list of witnesses.-————On 8th November,
1907, I wrote : ~~~~~~~ “I would be very glad. of an assurance that
I will not be called to give evidence before your Com-
mission before Christmas. I am going away next week to
Paris, and it is uncertain when I may be able to return.”——e~-—-
To this I received a reply “that, in view of the large
amount of evidence already received, the Commission have
decided that it is unnecessary to call you as a witness
before tl'iem.”m--JI‘0 this the Assistant Secretary of the
Personal Rights Association replied as follows :—-~“Your
letter . . has been under consideration of the Committee
of the Personal Rights Association, and I am instructed to
say that they will raise no objection to the decision of the
Royal. Commission that it is unnecessary to call Mr. I. H.
Levy as a witness before them, provided Mr. Levy’s précis
be accepted a evidence by the Commission. That précz’s
has been prepared, and printed copies of it have been in
readiness, almost since the commencement of the work of
the Commission, and Mr. Levy has remained in London
while the Commission was sitting, waiting to be called;
and the Committee of the Personal Rights Association hold
that it would not be a fair way of carrying on the in—
vestigation entrusted to the Commission, if, because of the
large amount of evidence different from. that which he
would give, the ethical statement which he would place
before the Commission, on behahC of this Association, were
altogether shut out from the purview of the Commission.
If the Commission cannot accept Mr. Levy’s fwécis as
evidence, my Committee must respectfully ask the Com.-
mission to reconsider their decision not to call him as a
witness. If that précz’s be accepted as evidence, I will
furnish you with as many copies as are required by the
Commission, as soon as it can be revised so as to make it
apposite to the evidence which has been taken since it was
prepared. ”

()n the afternoon of l/Vedncsday, 27th November, our Assis-
tant Secretary received a reply :l’ron'i the Secretary to the
Commission, stating “that this Commission will. be pre-

0 r-
“3

 

  




 

 

 

 

pared. to hear Mr. Levy on "I‘uesday next, the 3rd. pr0x., at
122.30. Twelve copies ol‘ his p'z/écis of evidence should 1">a(_:h
this eﬁice by Friday morning of this week." I was thus un-
able to revise my P’VéCiS, twelve cepies of which were sent at
once; and, fortunately, l was not called to Paris, as; I fully
expected. On 3rd December, 1907, soon after noon, 1 was
at the ofﬁce of the Commission, in Cljiapel Place, Delahay
Sty, waiting to be called.

26

 




 

THE EXAMINATION.

 

Tuesday, 3rd December, 190.7.

 

PRESENT:
The Right Hon. ’l'he Viscount Shiny (C/zai'rmrm).
Colonel The Right llon. A. M. Locicwoon, C.V.()., MI).
Sir W. S. CHURCH, Bart, lx'.C.l’)., l‘»l..l).
Sir W. I. Counxs, 3%qu :\l.l)., I“.l2.C.S.
Sir I McFAnYEAN, MP».
Sir M. D. CIIALMERS, l{_C.It‘:., CS
Mr. A. I. RAM, Kiel.
Mr. W. H. GASKELL, -.\l.l>., IRRB.
Mr. G. \VILSON, .\I.l">., l.l..l).
Captain C. mantra, C.‘.\l.(‘i. (:SI'LZI-’Ci'(17’}i’).

 

MR. I. H. LEVY, CALLED IN AND EXAMINED.

r8465. (C/zoi'rman.) You. I l‘mlieve, are I’lonorary Secre-
tary of the Personal Rights Association ?--I am.

18464. “7 hat is that Associatirm ?—~~-—~-It is an Association
for the defence of personal rightswriﬁ men and women,
of course, and secondarily ol’ animals.

18465. That is what I asked you. the question for. In
personal rights do you include the personal rights of
aninials?~-~No, we slumld not call. the rights of animals
personal rights ; but we are obliged to take into considera-
tion the rights of animals for this l'BElS(')I]~~-*tl’1£1t if we did
not recognize that the animals have rights, we should be
obliged to consider every prosecution for cruelty to animals
as an attack on the personal rights of the person prose—
‘cuted; therefore in tﬁiat secondary way we are obliged to

take into consideration the rights ol animals.

”’7
4-1

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

18466. Has your Association any hall or place of
meeting ? 32 Charing Cross.

18467. You have offices there? -\\"e have an office at 32
Charing Cross.* I may say that we have been in existence
since March, 1871, and we have had quite an illustrious
band of vice-presidents.

18468. And how many members have you ?~——From 120
to 150. We are only a small number of people meeting in
an upper room; but I hope that will not militate against
our evidence being considered valuable.

The champions of vivisection want to discredit the many
because they argue badly, and those who argue well because they
are the few. “If Machiavelli,” says Viscount Morley of Black-
burn, “ had been at Jerusalem two thousand years ago, he might
have found nobody of any importance in his eyes, save Pontius
Pilate and the Roman legionaries.”T

18469. It is a question we ask of most witnesses who
come to represent particular bodies ?—-A«Quite so.

18470. I should like to say first before I examine you, and
other gentlemen examine you, that we cannot admit as
part of your evidence that pamphlet which, is appended in
print to your précz's called “The Ethics of Vivisection
we cannot print it bodily as evidence; but we shall ask
you questions on the points mentioned in your fwécis and if
there are any answers that you wish to support by the
the arguments used in your pamphlet, of course you can use
them. for that purpose ?—-~~I am very sorry for that, because
although my précis, including the appendix, has been on
our shelves for nearly twelve months, I consider that if you
would read it through—mm—

18471. Ihave done so ?--I am very much obliged to you,
my Lord. Iconsider that it is almost a sufficient answer
in itself to the evidence that was given before this Com—
mission by Lord Justice Fletcher Moulton; that is to say,
it anticipates that evidence, and I think replies to it.

18472. I have told you what I propose to ask you; it
may be that other members of the Commission will take a
different view and go into this matter more than I should
do, but I propose to ask you with regard. to the ﬁrst two
pages of your précis, which, I think, open the whole ground
of your views P~-Yes.

I submit that the Chairman of a Commission has no right to

shut out from examination a part of the précis of evidence sub-
mitted by a Witness, except on the ground of irrelevancy. It is

 

. * Now at 11, Abbeville Road, SW.

"1" These notes, set back and in smaller type, are comments added
subsequently to the examination.

/)8
4-4

 




 

not sufﬁcient that he, the Chairman, calls it a “ pamphlet or by
any other p ejorative name. Lord Selby examined me on only
about A 11111111111111 111 PART ofmx ,1 1111's, and—so far as his inﬂuence
11ent~would have excluded from notice the remaining thirteen—
fourteenths l was thus handicapped from the beginning; but
when I found out what was thus intended, and had no assurance
that any other member of the Commission would take a different
course, I deliberately brought in all I could of the subsequent
matter, and Sir William Collins afterwards examined. me on the-
rejected portion of my pz’écz's. But his examination was un-
systematic and evidently externporized. The Commission were
quite within their right in refusing to print as evidence this.
portion of my précis; but, after they had done this, the effort to.
exclude it from examination also was evidently indefensible.
They might have declined to print it as evidence, and have
examined me on it. They might have printed it as evidence, and
have declined therefore to examine me on it. But to refuse to-
print it as evidence or to examine me on it was, I contend,
morally ultra viz/es.

18473. You are going to tell us what you consider to be
the case set up by those who are in favour of vivisection as.
regards its morality ?~—~Yes, that case is almost~——-—~if not
entirelyw—based upon the direct balancing of the pain
inflicted on the animal and the pain which the vivisectors
suppose to be avoided by the knowledge which they may
obtain in that way I have contended, in the portion of
111} brécis which is not to be considered now, and I believe
that l have (ontended successfully, that that is not
sound. ethics—-— that the hedonistic ethics, which Lord
Justice Fletcher Moulton put before you (and which I
believe to be sound ethics at bottom) cannot be applied
directly in that way ; that you have to obtain from it your
axiomata media, as Austin contended, and apply them, and
that any attempt to apply the hedonistic end directly, by
the balancing of the evil and the good, is altogether a
mistake and unsound ethics. 1 could show you that by
taking a case. Supposing a man who has a wife and
children at home wanting food goes into a railway
carriage, and sees there a bag of sovereigns marked
“Rotl‘ischild.” Shall he steal those sovereigns or not?
31y direct balancing, the ethical verdict would have to be
in favour of his taking them; the loss inﬂicted upon
Rothschild could be a very small matter indeed, while the
gain in avoiding the pain to his family would be very
great. If you decide that matter in the way of direct
balancing, the decision will be in favour of the man.
committing the theft. The proper way, howexr'er, of
dealing with the matter is to arrive at some mediate
axiom——~~that of honesty in the matter of property, which
1would decide exactly the other wav. And so it is 111th

29

 




 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

rega rd to this viviseCtion. ' 11 \1111 a1gue it by way of direct
halan11n0 you come to 1111e1o11cl11s111n ; 11 \111111101ue it by
you1 mediate axiom of 111111als you come to another
conclusion.

18474. I see in your 111-15113 you state the grounds upon
which those who approve 111 vivisection base that
approval ?-—~Yes, there are three grounds.

18475. You have dealt with the second. of them just
now; that is to say, that the pain or cruelty inﬂicted is
more than compensated by the 111-111wledge obtained which
enables the medical profession to lessen pain and loss 111C
life, so that the balance on the whole is in favour 111
happiness ?——Yes.

18476. The first I see you state is that annuals vivisected
within the scope of British law 1661. no pain, or at all
events not such a degree 111 pain as to 1:11:11stitute cruelty ?—~~
Yes.

18477. But do you contend that .11 an animal is operated
on under complete anzesthesia, and is not allowed to come
out of it, that is cruelty? ~~~~~~~ No, you will. find 011 the next
page of my pm‘cis that I deal, with that ; that 11 an amimal
is operated upon after the sentient life 111 that animal is
1.:ornpleted—that is to say, 11 the animal is under complete
2:1.naest1‘1esia and is not allowed to recover from that
anzesthesia, so that it dies 111 that state, then the operation
on that animal, although technically during its life, is
after its sentient life is ended; and, as I should View the
matter, it is more properly to be called anatomy than
vivisection.

18478. Then as regards the ﬁrst ground, you say that 11
every animal that was opeiated upon was opeiated upon
under complete anaesthesia, that is an answei. '9 ~~~~~ Y es, if me
could get any adequate guaiantee that the aniinal is
operated upon under a complete anaesthesia, and in the
preliminary stages of putting that animal under anaesthesia
there is nothing done that is objectionable, and the animal
is not allowed to survive, that is to say, is not allowed to
come out of the anaesthesia, but dies before it does so, then
for all practical purposes that animal has been operated
upon after its sentient life is ended, and therefore from that
point of view may be regarded as a dead animal and the
operation itself may be regarded as 2:1112-1tomy. But Iam
bound to tell you that I very much. doubt whether you will
get guarantees for anything of that kind being done—that
is the point.

18479. You are not you1self, I understand, aphysiolo—

3O

   

 

 




 

 

    

gist ?~~l am not, and I do not propose to give evidence in
that connection.

18480. \‘Ce have had a very large number of physiolo-
gists before us, the purport of whose evidence has been that
the Act has been enforced fairly and properly as regards
anaesthesia; if that is so that would deal with the experi—
ments under a simple licence? ayes; but I do not share
their opinion.

18481. But it does not deal with the cases in which the
animal is allowed. to recover, or where it is desired that
the animal should recover afterwards, and be watched, or
with the cases of inoculation of disease ?———No.

18482. To those cases you object, I understand ?~——I do.
I would like the Commission to understand that when I
say that I should have no objection whatever to an animal
being vivisected under complete anaésthesia, and killed. or
allowed to die in that state of amesthesia, I do not commit
myself to saying that any guarantees which have been
proposed up to the present time appear to me sufﬁcient for
that purpose.

18483. But you would admit that that is a question of
fact, would you not? The Act has been at work for 30
years, and it is a question of fact and evidence as to
whether or not it has worked satisfactorily so as to prevent
anything in the nature of cruelty 3,. —I quite agree with that,
provided that it is distinctly understood that I am not
saying that I consider it satisfactory.

18484. Quite so. May l take it that you do not see any
justiﬁcation for allowing animals to come to after an
operation in order to watch the results ?—~~—Provided that
there were no pain connected with it of any serious kind, I
should see no objection even to that ; it is only a question
of whether the animal is subjected to serious pain in the
matter. I see no objection to an experiment on an
animal, as such. If anybody proposed to try whether
an elephant could carry a threepenny bit from, say,
'l‘ralalgar Square to the Houses of Parliament, I
should not object ; and if the load were increased 1 should
also not object up to the point beyond which the load
became such that the experimenter would be prosecuted
under the Act for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

18485. And do you object to inoculation, giving an
animal. a disease, on etl'iical grounds ?—-~~-l consider that the
whole of the present practice of the propagation of
disease through animals is an abon’iination which will be
swept away at some future time. -

18486. \Vould that be your opinion, although you were

31

  




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

satisfied that good results for mankind, and. the treatment
of diseases of mankind, were obtained. by reason of those
e:<pe1i111.ents——~would that alter your View ?— ~~~~~ ~l d1.) not
believe that good results can be so obtained.

18487. Iunderstand that ?~~~~—Bu.t even if you could show
me some good physical. results which could be obtained in
that way, I believe that there are other considerations
connected with the matter which ought to condemn the
practice, and I feel quite sure that, in the future, the
medical profession generally will condemn the practice.

18488. That is to say, that you do not think that the
saving of a great number of human lives ora great deal of
human pain would justify the operations bby way of
inoculation of giving a disease to a score of an1mals’»—It
is the same with regard to all questions of morals.
This question does not arise simply with regard to vivisec-
tion or with regard to some animal disease ; it arises with
regard to every moral law that we have. Take the ques-
tion of lying or the question of murder. Supposing that by
committing a murder you think you can save several other
lives, the same question arises. Take the case of Eugen
Hahn, which I have put in that statement of mine, on
which, my Lord, you are not* to examine me. This surgeon
took a bit of cancerous matter out of a woman's had breast
and inserted it into her healthy breast. Suppose Eugen
Hahn could show me that by his doing that to that woman
he could save 50 other lives, 100 other lives, or a thousand
other lives, I would say: “No, you do not prove to me
that you have done what ought to be considered right.
lhe evil to humanity by allowing such. things to be done
far transcends any medicalo' 2g11n that you could possiblgy Get
in that way. I would contend also that as l have
shown there, and shown most concl11sively~~~--these experi—
111ents are not conﬁned. to animals, and. never have been
conﬁned to animals; they have always been performed on
human beings, as well as animals Any of you gentlemen
who are acquainted with this book by D1. Smidovich will
hnd the eighth chapter of it full 11f instances, with refei—
ences to pages in magazines and medical journals, 1n vx. hich
the authors of those crimes have themselves put 1111 record
the fact that they have committed them.

18489. That case of Eugen Hahn to which you have
referred was a case, judging from your a1:c1.1unt, in which a
surgeon whose duty it was to do his best for his patient
took the opportun1tv of poisoning her? ~~ ’1ut why is a

* lhis word “’not was omitted from the report evidently b_\-
mistakexml. H. I.

’90
c)“

 

 

 




 

 

surgeon bound to do the best for his patient? Suppose-
he can, by poisoning a patient, produce a great deal of
good for the rest of humanity, and. save a lot of lives, on
vivisectionist ethics he ought to do it. Why, if it is a
question of direct balancing, should it not be done?

18490. You are putting vivisection ethics somewhat
differently from the way in which they have been put
before us. You have a right to do it, I suppose, in arguing
the ethical question ?~—~l think I have a right to put it so.
If it is a matter of direct balance, one way or the other,
why should not Eugen Hahn do that which he did P

18491. You think that on the principles of the vivisectors
he ought to do it ?~—I think that if they were carried out
logically that is what they would do. Ithink that they
dare not, generally, do it; that is to say, they dare not
carry out their principles logically.

18492. Your second ground about the balance in favour
of happiness you have already dealt '\Vitli?~~~—I have dealt
with that, I think.

18493. Then the third ground which you put into the
mouth of the vivisectionist is that vivisection is part of the
procedure of science, and moralists have no right to dictate
to science, but, on the contrary, should. take their direction
from it ?——YeS.

18494. Is not that rather a controversial way of putting
your adversary’s argument for him ?~—~——Then let me put my
adversary’s argument in words out of his own mouth.

18496. Out of whose mouth ?—~——Not merely out of the
mouth of one, but I will give you several. The vivi-
sectionist doctrine, as an ethical doctrine, is the primacy of
science over morals. In other words, vivisectionists claim,
as scientiﬁc men, to be unrestricted by moral considera-
tions, or by public opinion. Professor Metchnikoff, at
the conclusion of the Harben lecture on 30th May of last
year, after advocating the vaccination of young girls with
syphilitic material———with which he had succeeded in
infecting monkeys—~11] order to ﬁt them for a career of
prostitution (“Journal of Preventive Medicine,” page 459),
declared that “morality should not attempt to lead
hygiene, but should rather follow her," and that “ modern
hygiene, having become an exact and inﬁnitely more
precise science than it was formerly,” ought “to reign
supreme over all moralizing doctrines.” This statement
was met with loud applause and stamping by an English
scientiﬁc audience. ’

I8497. Were you present ?*—~I have a letter from a person
who was present, and. I can put that letter in as evidence,

'1 '3
J .1)

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if you like. The lecturer was complimented at the close of
the lecture, special. reference being made to what he had
said. about morals and hygiene; and amid enthusiastic:
applause he was presented with the Harben Gold Medal.
Under these circumstances I cannot dissociate British
’vi'visectors from their foreign coadjutors. One of the
frankest of these, Dr. Smidovich, in his book, “Confessions
of a Physician,” page 152, says: “There is but one way out
of the dilemma ------ that of stiﬂing the reproaches of con-
science, of choking down pity, and closing one’s eyes to the
living agony of the animals sacriﬁed..” In his reply to
Questions 3737 and 3738, Professor E. H. Starling said: “It
is the greatest asset which a nation can have to have
among itself a number of men endowed. with this ‘mere
curiosity,’ men who will put everything second to the
advancement of knowledge.” In “Nature,” a fortnight
before this was said (6th December, 1906, page_122),
Professor Starling wrote: “A clamour has been raised by
certain agitators for a restriction of experiments to those
which can be shown to have a direct utilitarian object.
Such a restriction is impossible. . . ,. These researches
must be undertaken in a spirit of pure curiosity, from a
love of knowledge itself.” It will be observed that the
argument is: Everything is second to the advancement of
knowledge; vivisection is necessary to the advancement of
knowledge; therefore everything is second. to that for
which vivisection is necessary. Dr. de \Vatteville wrote to
the “Standard ” (23rd November, 1883): “I think we, as
medical men, should not attempt to conceal from the
public the debt of. gratitude they owe to the cor/pom vz'lz'ri.~~-
for such there are, and will be as long as the healing art
exists and progresses.” He pleaded that moral and
pecuniary support should not be “refused to liospitals on
the ground. that their inmates are made use of otherwise
than for treatment.” He contended that “no amount of
hysterical, agitation and so-called humanitarian agitation
will alter the laws of. Nature, one of the plainest of which is
that the'few must suffer for the many. Sentimentalists who
think they know better, who uphold the abstract ‘Rights
of Man,’ and want to push them to their logical conse—
quences, have no other alternative in the question now
before us than to condemn the modern course of medical
studies.” And he concludes : “ Whilst defending the moral
grounds upon which experimental medicine rests, I allow
that there are limits, narrow limits beyond which. it would
be imprudent or criminal to go. But I must emphatically
protest against the tendency of men nowadays~~~~»and. I am

34

 

 




 

 

 

ashamed to observe that a feware to be found within the
medical profession itsel.f—~——who act upon the supposition
that the public at large form. a proper tribunal to decide
upon what constitutes a transgression of. those limits.
Those alone are competent judges who are able to form a
correct opinion on the one hand. of the ultimate utility, on
the other of the proximate consequences, of any investiga—
tion in cor-pore viii.” Will your Lordship allow me to add
that Lord Justice Fletcher Moulton, in his evidence before
this Commission, really sustained the same ground—w-
.although he put it in words that are more consonant with
with English feeling, perhaps—«when he said in answer to
Question 12783: “‘Conscience’ is too often used where
the true expression should be ‘emotion.’ Emotion may be
a good motive power, but it is a bad. guide, and in my
opinion there is a very great deal of force in the phrase
which somebody has used: ‘ If you want to do good in a
particular way and want to know how you can do it
effectively, give your heart a rest and your brains a
-c'hance.’ ” You. see conscience is turned. into emotion,
emotion is turned. into the heart, and you have to put your
heart away ; that is to say, you have to do what Professor
Metchnikoff tells you, you have to put your conscience
away. That is just what Dr. de \Vatteville tells you; itis
the same thing tl'iroughout. T he ethical ground of vivi—
section, I. contend, is really a repudiation of morals and a
contention that the pursuit of knowledge is to be
unrestricted by moral considerations.
This is a long answer; but much more might have been said
on the solidarity of British and Continental. vivisectors. Dr. W.
M. Haﬂkine is a foreign vivisector who has been employed by the
British Government in India. in the Bulletin de‘ 'Z’Institut Pasteur
for 15th September, 1906, (p. 704), he writes: ~~~~~ “ Ces questions (1141',
dans 16 ms d’zme 11-zaladz'e des animaux, 30111, au moins partiellement,
élucz’déés an ‘laboratoi-z/e (want qu’une méthode soit mise au service du
public, iz’rmt pu étre resolues que g'I/cldzrtellement, au cours de [)lusieurs
a-nnées d’exfbérimentation, sur des commummtésa'l'te'intes de choléra,
pm? la méthode qm’ les Anglais appellent ‘trial. and error.’ .”»-~“So'me
time ago,” said the British. illedical journal of 19th January, 1901,
(p. 187), “reference was made to the inoculation with syphilitic
serum made by Professor A. .Neisser of Breslau upon eight healthy
young girls, which was the subject of debate in the PruSsian
Parliament. The matter ultimately came under the jurisdiction
of a disciplinary Court, which sentenced Professor Neisser to a
reprimand and a ﬁne of3oomarksf’ ' Later, Professor Neisser
wished to go to the East in order to experiment on monkeys, with
syphilis, on a large scale; and,.at theirequest ofthe {German
A‘Ssociation for Comb‘atting Venereal li)i‘seases,** the lrhperial.
Chancellor made application to the British Government for per-
?” See the Journal. of that x‘issociatirm for April, 1906, p. 3.2.

F

33

 




  

 

 

 

mission to can on these experiments in a British depend1 11cy

Our Government replied ‘ that it would rather Professor Neisser'
did not come to an 1English 1:1.)lony It was af1aid that the English
\nti- Vivisectionists would raise a protest and it wished to avoid
that 11iﬁiculty",' Still Professor Neisser appeared at the last
meeting of the British Medical Association as an invited guest,
gave an account of his horrible experiments, and Sir Malcolm
Morris paid “ tribute to Professor Neisser’s labours in the cause of
science and dermatology." t git/iris}: Medical Journal, 10th Oct...
1908, p. 1089.)

18498. You are putting it now in a somewhat different
way from that in Vvliiich it'is put in your précis. You say
there that the argument is that vivisection is part of the
procedure of science, and. moralists have no right to dictate
to science, but, on the contrary, should take their direction
from it mel‘hose are almost exactly Professor Metchnikofl’s
words.

18499. That is not the View which has been taken by the-
great bulk, I. think, of the witnesses who have been before
us ?I am very glad to hear it, but it is undoubtedly the-
view of Professor Starling; it is undoubtedly the view of
Professor Metchnikoff, and, so far as I can see, it is the View
also of Lord Justice Fletcher Moulton.

18500. (Colonel Lockwood.) You said just now that you
had reason to believe that anaesthesia was not always
complete; have you any authority for that statement ?—--—
My idea respecting that has been gathered from what I
have read and from the fact that curare is used along with
the anmsthetic. I do not see how you can really guarantee
that you have got the animal under an anaesthetic if you
use curare at the same time.

18501. Then is it a sort of general statement, for whricl
you have no authority? «er-My ebonclusion has been gathered
from my own reading. Asl have told the Commission, I
have not come here to- day to give evidence upon any point
except the ethical side of the question.

18502. (Sir Willzam Church.) Why do you place a limit
upon the rights of animals?—~—Rig11ts must be limited by
responsibility; you cannot make animals responsible in
the same way that you can make a human being respon—
sible. I limit the 1ights of animals, I also limit the rights
of children; and I limit the rights of idiots and lunatics,
simplv because you cannot make them 1esponsi.ble And
there is also another ground for the limit, namely, the
g10und of sensibility.

18503. You said, Ithink, that you thought that we had
a perfec right to kill an animal for experimental

f Idem
”-36

s

 

 

 

 

 

  

 




 

 

 

 

'9'!-

purposes; that if the sentient life of the animal was dead
you had no objection to experiments ?--~~———None whatever.

18504. What right have you to kill an animal to make
an experiment upon it ?~~~If the animal is a domesticated
animal it is kept by us, and there is no possibility
of our carrying on any such intercourse with animals
unless we have certain rights over them. we are bound
to kill in order to live ourselves, with regard to a great
number of animals. We are bound to kill them even for
vegetable food; we cannot get any sort of food without
killing animals, and there is no reason why this should be
limited to the mere obtaining of food. If we can get any
other good from them without inﬂicting upon them any
wrong, then we should. undoubtedly do it.

18505. If we have a moral right to kill animals to feed
ourselves, why have we not a moral right to kill animals
to protect ourselves from disease ?~-~-~VV e have such a right ;
I have never denied .it. ’

18506. Then you maintain that we have a right to kill,
but we have not a right to pain ?——~~Not to torture.

r8507. What do you mean by torture ?——~—I mean serious
pain that is inﬂicted for some unjustiﬁable purpose.

18508. Then it is justiﬁable to feed ourselves, but not
justiﬁable to try and protect ourselves P—wExactly, it is not
justiﬁable to protect ourselves in that way. '

18509. I do not quite understand what you said. with
regard to the propagation of disease through animals.
Animals are used experimentally for the diagnosis of
disease, not the propagation of it ?~—-—T hey are used for the
diagnosis of disease; that is to say, they are given certain
diseases for that purpose ; and they are also given diseases,
not for the purpose of diagnosis, but for the purpose of
experimenting on these diseases; and, in answer to a
question from the Chairman, I said that I believed that the
whole of that practice of the propagation of disease
through animals was a wrong thing; that it would pass
away, and that the medical profession themselves would
come to that opinion. I give that as my opinion. -

18510. Istill do not understand what you. meant by the
propagation of disease ?—~«~I mean this. If you give a
number of animals a disease, I call that the propagation of
disease in those animals. They would not take the
disease in the course of nature—~in the ordinary way.
If you give an animal a disease voluntarily and
deliberately, I call that the propagation of disease.

18511. For the sake of a special observation and
experiment ?-—I do not care for what you do it ; that is the

37

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

I‘ll“

 

  

 

  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

I

   

   

propagation of disease. I am not in the least denying that
vivisectionists, in a large number of instances, at all
events-~~perhaps universally at the outset-——- are actuated by
good intentions. [have never said a single word against
that

18512 Have you any ethical objection to the use of
what a1e BOWL called seia in the tieatrnent of disease? WII
those sera are obtaineril by vivisectional processes, of
course I object to that, not because they are sera,
but because they are obtained vivisec tionally; it is only
asking me the same question that I have aheady answered
in another form. Iwould not allon myself, or any child
of mine, to be operated upon. seropathically. I may tell
you, if you are interested. in knowing it, that some years
ago, when I was visiting Paris, I was attacked by some
disease, and the doctor there proposed subcutaneous
injection. I said ————— ‘What are your going to inject? If. it is
serum or vaccine, I will not have it on any consideration.”
“No,” he said, “it is morphine.” I said—“You may use
morphine, if you like.” But I would not allow myself to be
operated upon seropatl'iically.

18513 Why not? In the ﬁrst place, I do not believe in
seropathy— -—~—~

18514 Ihat will d;o you need not go any further
(After a. short adjournment, Szr Willzam Chm/ch took the

Chair.)

18515.(Si1/ William Collins.) The paper appended to
your evidence deals laigelv with a discussion which you
had with Huxley, does it not ?——~~—Yes.

18516. Iunderstand you to agree with Huxley that the
ﬁeld of morality is a reclamation from a state of nature? -
Yes, I do hold that, and I hold it to be a very important
statement of his, which is a landmark, as I think I have
said, in British ethics

18517. Igather that you think that to take the cosmic
process as our moral exemplar is fatal to the ethical ideal?
~~~Certainly.

18518. Iunderstand that you quote John Stuart Mill as
in agreement with yourself to the effect that the doctrine
that man ought to follow nature, or, in other words, ought
to make the spontaneous course of things the model of his
voluntary action, is irrational and immoral P-~~That is
certainly my principle

18519. And you. lay emphasis, I gather, upon the evolu-
tion of the moral sense ?«-~~———Yes.

18520. That is to say, that things formerly regarded as
not immoral. may be held to be immoral to-day, and things
08

J

 

  

 




 

 

regarded as moral to-day may be regarded as immoral 'at
some future date ?~ -Undoubtedly.

18521. Isee that you'lay stress upon an opinion which
you share that our consideration for animals is not so
much subtracted from a ﬁxed stock of sympathy resulting
in less being available for our fellow-men and women, but
is rather the sowing of a crop of tender emotions?- -—
Certainly; I hold. that to be a very important principle.
Usually it is argued that it is the opposite-~that philozoic
sentiment is something subtracted from philanthropic
sentiment. On the other hand, I think that not only could.
it be shown a prior-i, but it could be veriﬁed from experi-
ence, that those who are kindest to animals tend to be
kindest to human. beings also. _ ,

r8522. You think that it is part and parcel of the same
moral sense that dictates our action towards mankind and
towards animals ?~«———Certainly; I think that the basis of
all our moral actions is sympathy, and that that sympathy
ought to be as wide as sentient existence. '

18,523. In regard to the question of the balance of
advantages, the theory "put forward by Sir John Fletcher
Moulton, I see that you call attention to the judgment of
Lord Chief Justice Coleridge in the case of the “Mig~
nonette ” Paw-Yes, that is a very in'iportant point. You will
notice _ there that Lord Chief Justice Coleridge’s decision is
almost the exact opposite to that of Lord Justice Fletcher
Moulton. . '

185224. I see that the Lord Chief justice then said:~»-~
“ Law and morality are not the same; many things may
be immoral which are not necessarily illegal; yet the
absolute divorce of the l aw from morality would be a fatal
consequence ” ?~~‘-~Yes, certa..:inly it would.

18525. You agree that there may be things which may

'be regarded as immoral, which we ought not to punish

by law?———Undoul.)ti—idly; it would be fatal. to attempt to
regulate our whole ﬁeld of morality by law. Andl may
say 'with regard to this question of Vivisection, that,
although I think something may be obtained by law, still I
myself rely more upon such. arguments as are put forward
in the appendix to my precis to affect the medical profes—
sion, and scientiﬁc men generally; andI think that they
will gradually come round to the View which I have put
forward. .

18526. You agree that not everything that is morally
wrong need be punishable by law P--Certainly.

18527.. And that it may be a question for this Commis-
sion to decide, or to advise the Government upon, as to

39

\,

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

whether vivisection is or is not one of those things which,
though you regard them as morally wrong, shouid yet be
not punishable by law ?~~-Yes, I think that there may be
some things in vivisection which we may hold to be
wrong, and endeavour to discourage, but still we should
not be wise to interfere with them by means of penal
enactments.

18528. I see that you rather sum up the opinion of Lord
Chief Justice Coleridge in the “ Mignonette”case by saying
that what would otherwise be a crime is not justiﬁable by
the plea of a speciﬁc balance of advantage P—WYes, that is
my contention throughout the whole of that essay.

18529. We have often had the question raised in this
Commission whether it is right to ride a horse to death to
save a human life. What do you say with regard. to that?
—A-—If it is a question between the life of a horse and the life
of a human being, I should ride the horse to death asI
would risk my own life.

18530. Is that adopting the balance of advantages
argument or not ?~ I am placed between two alternatives.
I have to do one thing or the other ; I have to let the human
being die or the horse die, and I am bound to take my
Choice. But I would not vivisect a horse to save a human
being.

18531. You think that is a sound position ?—~*—I think so.
It is one that has been put to me, and which I have to
answer, just off-hand. I think I would. take the risk of the
horse dying.

I asked leave to amplify the answer to this question. As it
stands in the report, it is misleading or obscure. I would have
liked to have added :-»~r—".Fhough the domestic animals should be
protected from torture, whether inflicted from alleged scientiﬁc
motive or not, it appears to me a-sound mediate principle of.
morals that we can rightfully submit them to the same sort of
perils that we take ourselves in the performance of our duties. I
would hazard riding my horse to death where I would hazard my
own life or encourage a son of mine to jeopardize his. If I were
a ﬁreman going with a tire-escape to rescue human beings from a
conﬂagration, and through some accident I had only one horse
instead of two, I would venture to overdrive that horse, and thus
to kill him, just as I would venture in the burning building my-
self in the endeavour to save the persons in it. If I were a police-
man, I would ride with a horse into a riotous assemblage in
which we were both liable to grievous misusage; if I were a
soldier defending my country from invasion, I would do likewise.
There appears to meto be no parity between these cases and that
of vivisectional cruelty.

r8532. Have you not rather put to us that in the case of
vivisection there may be a conﬂict between the objects of

40

 

 

 

  




 

 

science and the dictates of morals ELM-Yes, certainly there
may be.

18533. Do I correctly understand from you that when
that conﬂict occurs morals should be supreme ?~--—~Yes,
morals should always be supreme over everything; other—
wise moral law has no meaning at all.

18534. I did not quite understand how Sir John Fletcher
Moulton applied his balance of advantages theory in the
case of man, because I see that in answer to Question
12735 he says: » “I unhesitatingly say that our right to
experiment on men is extremely limited. In the ﬁrst
place, we have no right voluntarily to allow death to
. occur, even though the man would be willing to permit
it.” And he says :——~“I do not think that we should have
the right for experimental purposes to allow a man to
infect himself under special circumstances, even though
they would assist science 11 ith a disease like syphilis in
order to add to knowledge. And again he says: —~“I do
not think that you ought to lessen in any way the feeling

of sanctity of human I 1fe \V hat do you say with regard '

to that 7— I do not think the sanctity of human life would

,be decreased by a man voluntarily submitting himself to
experiment, but it certainly should not be done except
under the strongest public guarantees that no wrong is
being done; because evidently anything like that would be
open to the gravest abuse if the public had no means of
verifying what was done.

18535. Do you think it 11 ould be sound ethically to say
that while the balance of advantages argument is
applicable in the case of animals, it is inapplicable in the
case of man ?——No, that is not the case. If an animal
could voluntarily give itself up to be experimented upon I
should see no objection to the animal doing it, but I object
to an animal being made a vicarious sac11fice in the way

that is done, and I t)object to a man being made a vicarious 1

sacriﬁce in the same 11ay. If the woman in Eugen Hahn’s
case, which I have mentioned already, had. said:———“I allow
you to experiment with my healthy breast,” under due
supervision, so that it could. be veriﬁed by the public, I
would see no harm in it.

18536. You draw a great distinction between cases in
which the voluntary assent of the patient has been
obtained and those in which it has not ?~—-Certainly;
voluntary self— sacriﬁce happens every day, on the battle-
field and elsewhere.

18537. As Lord Chief Justice Coleridge said in his
judgment —“ To preserve one 5 life is, generally speaking,

.41

 




  

 

 

    

 

a duty : but it may be the plainest duty, the highest duty,
to sacriﬁce it " ?A~-~Certain.ly; and as that is so in military
matters, I see no reason why it should not be so also in
scientific matters.

18538. We have had the name of" I5’irogoff mentioned
l_)efore the Commission already. I see you. make some
reference to his work; do you desire to quote from it ?-~
That is a quotation in my essay from the book of Dr.
Smi dovich.

18539. What does he say ?~~9f-"irogolf says:-~~~-“ In my
younger days I was pitiless to suffering. One day, as I
remember, this indifference to the agony of animals under—
going ‘vivisection struck me with such force that, with my
knife still. in my hand, I involuntarily exclaimed, turning
to the comrade who was assisting me, “Why, at this
rate one might cut a man’s throat.’ Yes, much can be
said in favour of and against vivisection. There can be no
doubt that it is an important aid to science . . . liut
science does not entirely till the life of man; the
enthusiasm of youth and the ripeness of manhood pass, and
another period of life ensues, and with it an inner call for
introspection; and it is then that the recollection of the
violence used upon, the tortures inflicted on, and the
sufferings caused to another creature commence to pull at
one’s heart-strings involuntarily. It seems to have been the
same with the great Halter; so it was with me, I must
confess; and in these later years I would. never be able to
bring myself to perform the same cruel experiments upon
animals which at one time I carried out so zealously and
with such noncliialance.” You will observe that Dr.
Smidovich says in reply to this, “None of this can be
denied. lWaz's qua fair/e ? To renounce vivisection were to
place the future of medicine in jeopardy, to condemn us
doctors for ever to the uncertain and barren paths of
clinical observation.”

18540.13 it you or Dr. Smidovich who makes this
further observation, “As one of the ablest thinkers on
medical matters has said, it is not so much the amassing of
further facts that is wanted as the ability to think out the
logical consequences of the facts already within our know—
ledge” ?——It was I who said that, and the doctor referred
to is Dr. Rablagiati, of Bradford.

18541. Is Dr. Smidovich alive ?———I do not know at all.
I. think he is. This book of his has only recently been
published.

18542. What is the date of it? -------- It is quite recent.
(Sir IVilliam Church.) It is r904. It appears to be a

+3

 

 

 




 

 

young Russian doctor, and it is more a work of medical
romance. -

r8543. (Sir liVilliam Collins.) Then you made some
allusions to some experiments in regard to sypl'iilis? ~~~~~ Yes.

I8 544. Are they vouched for by Smidovich ?—~*-ers, if you
turn to Chapter 8 in his book you will, lind a heap of
experiments on human beings with syphilis, and the
references to the medical. and. other papers in which they
were confessed by their authors; and he points out that
those experiments in venerology took place because
animals could not be experimented upon for that purpose.
Since that time, of course, as you all know, Professor
Metchinkoff has succeeded in communicating syphilis to
monkeys.

r8545. Were those experiments made on human beings
without their knowledge and consent P~~~~~~So it appears in
Dr. Smidovich’s book; some of them with their consent,
some of them not.

18546. ls there anything else that you desire to add in
reference to the ethical evidence given by Sir John
Fletcher Moulton ?I want to point out in the ﬁrst place
that his doctrine is hedonistic but one—sided; he treats it
only from the negative sider~—l—namely, salvation from pain.
You see at Question 1-2704 that it is based on direct
balancing. W e have these words, “ He would look at the
inﬂicted pain, which would be" to the bad side of the
ledger.” Those words evidently mean direct balancing.
Now this View of direct balancing is argued against by me
in detail in the précis respecting which I have just been
answering; but, in reality, when you come to the after part
of Lord Justice Fletcher Moulton’s evidence the speciﬁc
balancing~~~~or rather I should say the quid pro quo—-— really
is withdrawn, because at Question 12717 you ﬁnd him
arguing that you should experiment even without that
quid pro quoe—wthat it should be done as “a matter of pure
curiosity,” as Professor Starling says. Now this, as I have
already said, is exactly the opposite to the View of Lord
Chief Justice Coleridge. Lord Justice Fletcher Moulton
proceeds by steps. He ﬁrst says: "‘1 say that if you look
round the world the only way in which. we can diminish
pain is by human action.” Well, I suppose it is; the only
thing we can do in any direction is by human action; in
fact, what we do and human action mean exactly the same
thing. But I would point out that science never l'lElS any
rigl'it to dictate human action. However far your
generalizations may carry you in science, and to whatever
height you may get in what you do in, science, your

43

 




 

 

conclusions will always be summed up in the indicative
mood. When you pass the indicative mood to the impera-
tive, you pass out of science altogether, and you come to
ethics, and the categorical. imperative must be decided by
ethical considerations. 'l‘hen Lord Justice Fletcher Moul—
ton said at Question 12708, “I shall trust to show to this
Commission that the pole star by which we steer is
knowledge.” Surely there was no need to demonstrate
any such thing to this Commission or to any human being
outside of Bedlam. “7 e all agree, of course, that the pole
star by which. we steer is knowledge. But then he proceeds
further on to say that no man who knows anything of
science has any doubt that the right way to advance
knowledge is by experiment, and then at Question 12716
you have the statement that “the more complex the
subject is the ”lore factors there are at work the more
essential the experimental method is, and the most
complex of all phenomena are those that relate to living
beings.” I believe I know something of logic, and. this
startles me as a great novelty, because the fact is really
that the more complex phenomena become the more
impracticable does experiment become, owing to inter—
mixture of effects, and that is why experiments on animals
or on human beings are to a large extent illusory; all.
sorts of contradictory conclusions are drawn. from the
same experiment performed by different individuals.
Professor Edward Spencer Beesly has drawn my attention to
the fact that George Henry Lewes raised the same logical objec-
tion, in the course of his evidence before the ﬁrst Royal Com—
mission on Vivisection. Mr. Lewes was himself a vivisector, but
he argued for a limitation of the practice because of this principle.
Those who wish to see more about this matter would do well to
read the last two essays in Dr. Bridges’s Illustrations of Positim’sn.
18547. {Sir William Church.) Do you make that state—
ment from your own knowledge ?~ si-Y es ; I am speaking as
a logician. 7
18548. Not as an experimenter ?«—-—No; I am speaking as
a logician. I am speaking as one who has for a great
number of years studied the science of evidence, and who
knows the conditions under wl'iicl‘i knowledge can be
obtained. But it must not be supposed, for that reason,
that I am in any way opposed to experiment; that is
quite out of the question. As I have said earlier today, I
am’ not Opposed to experiment, even on animals, under
limitations. -
I was much amused by the assumption of my catechizers
throughout this examination that no person was any authority,
or was entitled to come to any conclusion regarding Vivisection,

44

 

 




 

 

save the vivisectors themselves. I was asked, in varied phrase.
whether I was an “experimenter," an “expert," or an “authority,”
the implication being that no one save a vivisector was really in
court as a witness, for he only had ﬁrst-hand knowledge of the
subject to be investigated. This line of argument was anticipated,
many years ago, by Mr. Richard Power, then MP. for the City of“
\Vaterford. In moving the adjournment of the House of Com—
mons over the Derby Day, he thus criticized Sir Wilfrid l..awson,.
who had given notice of his intention to oppose the motion
“The honourable baronet and those who act with him are all
theorists—the most dangerous class of men in society . . . The
honourable baronet has no experience of any of the subjects on
which he attempts to legislate. The honourable baronet deals.
with the liquor question, yet never drinks; and speaks about the
racing question, yet never races. The honourable baronet always
appears to forget that a pound of experience is worth a ton of
theory." Mr. Power’s contention—wwhich is on all fours with that
of my interlocutors of the Vivisection Commission~~-involves the
somewhat startling conclusion that robbers and assassins are the
only persons who are competent to legislate on theft and murder.

18549. (Sir William Collins.) Sir John Fletcher l\’loulton's
point was largely that if medicine was a merely observa-
tional science it would crawl, but that if it were an
experimental science it would advance rapidly ?--———~7Yes; I
know he said that. He drew a distinction between an
observational science and an experimental science, and
he said “you can take the whole range of the sciences,
and I would challenge an opponent to name one in which
advance, if it has been rapid and. striking, has not been
through experiment." I suppose that it will be allowed
that great advance has been made in astronomy and
mathematics, and I suppose it would also be allowed
that no experiment has helped in that advance.

18550. Did not Sir John Fletcher Moulton say that he-
thought the science of volcanoes was the only observa—
tional science that he knew lies I did not know there
was a science of volcanoes separate from seismology, but
it is evident that that was chosen because it was a
laggard‘ piece of science. The fact is that the words
“ rapid and striking” afford a loophole of escape from any
criticism. If they refer to modern medicine, they beg the
whole question, because those who hold the view that I
am putting forward challenge, of course, the advances
which. have been made in this respectw—that is to say,
with regard to Pasteurism especially I certainly would
challenge it. Then how does Lord Justice Fletcher
Moulton prove his hedonistic theory? He gives us ﬁrst;
a history of what was done with a dozen guinea-pigs.

1855i. Have you been able to find out the origin or
source of that experiment PNO ; I have not.

45

 

 




  

    

18552. I did not get it from the Lord Justice him—
self ? ~——I observed that you asked him what those
experiments were, and that he said : “ I cannot
tell you the name of the doctor because it was not
given me, but I heard it long ago in the early days of
research in tuberculosis, and I believe it to be true.” If
that had been brought forward. here, not by a Lord Justice.
but, say, by some ignorant anti—vivisectionist, I venture to
say that you would have laughed very much at such a
piece of evidence. Then Lord justice Fletcher Moulton
went on to say: “If it was not actually performed it
would still hold good as a typical example.” A typical
example if not actually performed! That is a very
curious sort of example. If it is a typical example at all,
it is an example of the sort of reasoning that we are
expected to accept in this matter. Then further on, at a
suggestion of the Chairman, he said: “You may take it
simply as an illustration." If we get no evidence that
the thing occurred at all, what is the value of it as an
illustration? Then there was another illustration that he
gavewthe illustration of rats in a ship.* This is an
analogical argument, and, as anybody knows with regard
to analogy, the whole of the value of the argument
depends on the justice of the analogy; and there is no
analogy here at all. The rats in the ship were not vivi—
sected. I suppose that the passengers, if they were
rational hun'ian beings, would have been quite willing that
the rats should be destroyed, whether they were the cause
of the plague in the ship or not; certainly I would, and. I
do not know any anti—vivisectionist who would take up the
ground that Lord Justice Fletcher Moulton there puts
forward as that of an objector.

After the word “ship” above, which I have marked with an
asterisk, Sir William Church, who was in the Chair, said :—-“I
would ask Mr. Levy not to spend much longer with Sir John
Fletcher Moulton’s evidence. The Commissioners have it before
them and can judge it for themselves.” To this I replied :———“I
will not occupy much more of your time with it—~not more than
two or three minutes.” In order to obey the direction of the
Chairman, I, replied to the next question by reference to the
appendix to my pyécis.

18553. Does that complete all that you have to say with
regard to the evidence of Sir John Fletcher Moulton ?4———
Yes, I have looked. through the remainder, and I can ﬁnd
nothing in his argument, except what I have put
forward —-~ nothing at all. I consider that my essay
appended to my pi’écis is a complete answer to the
main. position that he took up.

46

 

 

 




 

 

18554. (Sir John McFadyecm.) I understood you to say
that in determining for oneself Wl'iether any action was
right or wrong one should not endeavour to cast up any
account of gain or loss, but should apply certain mediate
axioms. Will you tell us how you arrive at those mediate
axioms ?-—~You arrive at them either by induction or deduc-
tion from your main principle of ethics, that is to say,
the promotion of happiness.

18555. Is that the greatest happiness of the greatest
number ?—~—-—No_. the greatest happiness. I have nothing to
do with the greatest number.

18556. The greatest happiness of whom? —————— Of all. senti~
ent beings

18557. That is the greatest happiness of the greatest
number, is it not ?~«-~No. -

18558. Well, what is it ?~-—~—lt is the greatest happiness.

Sir John McFadyean had evidently heard something about the
old Benthamic formula, and could not get away from it; and
still, if he were dealing, say, with a verminous person, I have no
doubt that he would exterminate the greatest number in order to
promote the greatest happiness.

718559. The greatest happiness of all sentient beings ?-~»~
es

18560. But supposing that they cannot all be happy, is
not that deciding what course of action will bestow the
greatest happiness on the greatest number. Distinguish,
please, between that: and the utilitarian doctrine ?—--~——rl‘here
is no distinction ; it is the utilitarian doctrine.

18561. You accept that P—mYes.‘

18562. Do you only object to the hedonistic principle,
because you think the account is cast up wrong ?—~l do not
object to the hedonistic principle. If you read my jn/écz's
you will see that I accept it. 8

18563. But I understood you. to say a minute ago that
we were not to apply the hedonistic principle, but mediate
axioms ?~-~~No, what I object to is not the application of
the hedonistic principle, but a certain mode of applying it
rwapplying it in the mode of direct balance of advantages
of pleasure and pain. That is what I have endeavoured to
show. '

18564. Yes, I understand. You think that supposing
there might be freedom from pain there are counter~
vailing disadvantages ?>-—~-~-No, if you look at the portion of
my précis in which I have quoted from Austin you will see
that Austin himself tells you exactly.

18565. Perhaps you. can. explain it yourself ?——I’ would
rather read what Austin says. He says, “According to

4-7

 




  

    

that theory ”—that is the hedonistic theory r our conduct
will conform to rules inferred from the tendencies of
actions, but would not be determined by a direct resort to
the principle of general utility. Utility would be the test
of our conduct ultimately, but not immediately; the im-
mediate test of the rules to which our conduct would con—
form, but not the immediate test of speciﬁc or individual
actions. Our rules would be fashioned on utility; our con-
ducton our rules.”

r8566. 80 that if Vivisectors believe that by vivisection
they are promoting the happiness of sentient beings, they
are acting logically and in a way that you would
commend ?——Certainly, so far as our judgment of the men ,
is concerned; but, in judging the morality of acts, motive.
is irrelevant.

18567. That is all I want on that point. You were
asked a question as to the rights of animals, and I under-
stood you to say that these rights were limited by the
fact that animals are irresponsible, and. you classed them
along with lunatics and children ?-~~~—Yes, for some pur—
poses.

18568. It appeared to me that that was an unfortunate
classiﬁcation, because the fact that the individual is a
child or lunatic extends his rights as regards protection
from pain. Are the rights of animals extended with
regard to protection from pain, owing to their being
irresponsible more or less ?——I deny your premiss. I deny
that the rights of children and idiots are extended.

18569. Well, in what respects are they affected? 1 am
merel quoting, so far as I can, what you said yourself;
you said that they were limited?‘--~~»—Yes, they are limited;
they are limited by being interfered with. A child is not
allowed to do exactly what it likes in the same way as an
adult human being is.

18570. That is beside the question. We are discussing
pain; we are, not concerned with limiting the actions of
animals ?———-You asked me a question with regard to the
limitation of their rights, and I am answering that
question. » » 4 '

18571. I will put it to you again. You were asked with.
regard to the rights of animals, not with regard to their
limitation and you said that their rights were limited by
the fact that they were irresponsible ?~*~Yes.

18572. How does that bear on the question of causing
pain to animals? Does the fact that they are irresponsible
limit their rights as to freedom from pain caused by
human action ?-~-Yes, it does.

48

 

 




 

18573 That is what I tl1oughtP-———L\ moderate chastise-
111ent to a horse would be perfectly justiﬁable.

18574. But is it more 01 less justiﬁable owing to the
lact that the horse is irresponsible ?——-It is more justiﬁable
on account of the horse being irresponsible, and the horse
is placed under restraints which would not be justiﬁable if
it were responsible as a human being is.

18575. But that is only pain inflicted for that individual
horse’s good ?——~—I do not know that it is for that individual
horse’s good. If I drove a horse 21nd gave it 21 slight ﬂick
with the whip, it would not be altogether for the horse’s
good, it would be fo1 my good in getting forwa1d.

18576 So that that is a case you would think in which
it is quite permissible to cause pain to 2111111se?~—Yes, a
very slight amount of pain.

18577. Where do you draw the line ; what mediate
axiom enables you to draw the line between permissible
pain 21nd unpermissible pai1,1 which is not for the animal’s
good ?»—-—You cannot do it in practice.

18578. I am content \\ltl1 that answer ? -------- 11111 cannot do
it in practice, and you will ﬁnd that under the Cruelty to
’\nimals Act (A1 111str11n(1 1'. Mitchell, 88 l. ”T 870), the
question of cruelty 1s 1eserved as a question tor the judges;
that rs to say, it must be decided in each ase by men who
have got some empirical. idea of what amount of chastise—
ment shall be allowable 21nd what shall not. In all those
cases it is so. Nature is not made up in separate compart~
ments for us.

Sir John McFadyean seemed not to understand the difference
between the mediate principles of ethics, which form the major
premisses of morals, and the facts which constitute the minor
premisses. Moral principles alone are never sufﬁcient guides to
conduct. Before they can be applied, questions of fact have to
be determined. And the question of fact 13 often one of degree in
continuous phenomena All that is attainable in such cases is a
rough empirical judgment. Positive law affords innumerable
instances of this, as Lord Selby would have told his colleague
18579. May it be decided in the same wav how much

pain it is permissible to inﬂict on animals with 21 view to
extending useful human knowledge ?——-Certainly.

18580. May I ask whether you would consider it a
greater crime to kill a man or to cause him 21 considerable
amount of non- fatal pain? Certainly, I should say to kill.
him.

18581. Does that apply to animals also i ------- -—No.

18582. What is the mediate axiom which enables you to
discriminate in these cases ?~—~With regard to animals, the
killing is a necessity of our life upon earth. No man can

19

 




 

  

help killing animals; we could not help it, as I said
previously, if we were vegetarians. ~ The ploughshare,
when it goes through the ground to get the corn to make
my bread, kills~——vivisects, if you like~~innumerable earth—
worms. Do what we will, we cannot avoid killing animals,
but we can avoid torturing them, and it is avoidable evil
that we should avoid. .

18583. I am afraid I do not quite follow that. What is
the evidence that man must everywhere kill animals ?~—~Can
you tell me how to avoid it?

18584. Certainly; Icould suggest that if men ceased to
interfere with the domesticated. animals they probably
would die out, and it is only the domesticated animals
that I am dealing with P—«Yes.

18585. Then, supposing that they had died out here, do
you suggest that it would be impossible to maintain
existence without them ?--~~~~No, not without them ; but you
would be obliged to kill other animals in order to live.

18586. Why? Are you a vegetarian ?>—~No, but that does
not matter to the point you are asking me about.

18587. Except that we have had people herewho are
vegetarians, and who are maintaining their existence well.
enough ?——Never mind ; those persons who are vegetarians,
as I have explained just now, cannot obtain their bread
without killing earthworms, and they cannot obtain their
cabbages without killing caterpillars.

18588. So that you freely admit that man is entitled to
cause a certain. amount of pain to animals in protecting
himself, for instance, and in feeding himself ?——Yes.

18589. In some of which cases he may be justiﬁed in
killing them, although his life is not threatened but his
comfort simply is threatened ? Yes.

18590. What is the mediate axiom that justiﬁes a man in
killing an animal and causing pain in killing it to prevent
discomfort, but yet forbids his causing it any pain what-
ever in order to extend. useful human knowledge ?——I have
never said that he may not cause a certain amount of pain
to animals in order to extend useful human knowledge.

18591. If you admit that then I am quite content?
Very likely you and I would draw the. line at very different
places. 5

18592. Yes, I think that is very likely. Is it justiﬁable
to cause pain to one animal. in order to secure beneﬁt to
another animal ?—~—-~It might be so. If I could tie up my
dog, and cause it a certain amount of discomfort- by being
in its kennel, in order that another dog should be free frond}.
annoyance by it, I should feel perfectly justiﬁed in doing that.

S O

 

 

 

  
   




 

 

18593. I will put a concrete case to you. Supposing that
one had a lot of cattle in which a serious disease had
broken out, and one had knowledge amounting to cer-
tainty, that by taking blood from one of those animals and
injecting it into the others, one could save their lives, and
'save them a certain amount of suffering too (I ask you to
assume that that is so), would a man be justiﬁed in doing
that ?—I think so, so far as I can see.

r8594. Would you explain what is the difference in
principle between that and infecting an animal in order to
secure from it some material which would be valuable for
treating other animals ?———In the ﬁrst place, there is no
absolute certainty with regard to that. You have given
me absolute certainty with regard to the other case. There
is no absolute certainty in this.

18595. But I ask you to assume in this case also that
there is absolute certainty that by infecting an animal
which at present is healthy, you can afterwards obtain
from it material which would be valuable for saving the
lives of other animals. Assuming that to be certain, would
it be permissible?~-——l do not know all the circumstances.
I could not decide that offhand.

I8 596. Then why did you decide the other one so easily ?
-»——It appeared to me that that is a perfectly easy case, so
far as I can see. You must recollect that it is by no means
an easy matter to decide offhand at a Board like this all
the cases of casuistry that you might possibly put to me.

18597. Apparently not ?~~~—I am quite willing to acknow~
ledge it. I do not in the least deny it.

18598. Do you mean that it is difficult to decide on the
spur of the moment, whether it would not upset a con-
clusion previously arrived at ?--——I do not mean that in the
least. If, instead of asking me these cases now, you were
to write them down and give me a little time to think out
each case, then I should be able to give you a much better
answer.

18599. If I may I will restate it, and make it absolutely
concrete ?———I mean to say this, if you take the greatest
lawyer in the land and you put him down at this table and
then ply him with all sorts of difﬁcult questionsof the
application of the law, he will not be able to answer you
offhand. Very often judges take days to consider their
verdict upon these matters, and I should say the same with
regard to these matters of casuistry.

18600. Would you like me to understand that the ques-
tion is too complicated for you to answer offhand ?s~aTlie
question is one that requires consideration.

,4

DI

 




  

 

18601. May I call your attention to this statement in
your précz's: “If there is any validity in the \t‘rivisector's
logic it cannot stay at the lower animals." That is to say,
the logical consequence of performing an experiment 0n
the lower animals is to go on to experiment with man ?~—~-
No.

18602. Well, what does the statement mean? ——————— The
logical consequence of ViViSGCthD~~~tllat is to say, the
direct balancing ——r-~—-is that human beings, as well as
animals, will, be Vivisected if there is a direct balance of
advantage. ,

18603. Ibeg to call your attention to the fact that you.
yourself suggested it to be logical that they should go on.
to Vivisect criminals and lunatics ?~-Yes. I do say that.

18604. Supposing thatI point out Where the flaw is in
this reasoning ?~-———[ should be very glad.

18605. If there is any validity in the logic of those who
justify the killing of animals for human food, you cannot
stay at the lower animals. Then why not kill idiots,
lunatics, and babes for human food? It seems to me to be
just as logical to stop at the one as at the other ?—~-~l do not
think it is at all logical; at all events, it does not point
out any flaw in my reasoning.

18606. Is it not quite logical for Vivisectors to start with
an axiom which says that one thing may be permissible
with regard to one’s actions on the lower animals, but not
permissible on man ?——-One may quite do that. But I say
that, given hedonistic direct balancing, you cannot stop at
the lower animals logically, and I will go further and say
that vivisectors have not stopped at the lower animals. If
you take Dr. Smidovich’s book, the Whole of Chapter 8 is
full of experiments in which Vivisectors have not stopped
at the lower animals, and they have not stopped with
regard to cruelty.

18607. Does your objection to causing pain to animals
extend to the whole of the animal kingdom ?——~~—Of course it
varies with regard to the sensibility of the animal. One
would not say the same with regard to a black-beetle as.
one would with a dog. There is a difference in sensibility.
When the question is one of cruelty the sensibility of the
animal must, of course, be taken into consideration.

18608. What do you mean by cruelty ?~-—~~I have already
deﬁned it as serious pain inﬂicted for an object which
cannot be justiﬁed.

18609. But as applied. to pain caused by Vivisection it is
begging the question, is it not. To call the pain caused in
yi‘visection cruelty is begging the question which is in

H -'\

I
)4
.

 

 

 

     
   




 

 

dispute ?— ————— I never called all the pain inﬂicted by viviseo
tion cruelty. .

18610. Which part of it do you call. cruelty ?---—I say that
a great part of the pain inflicted by vivisection is cruelty,
and if. I had come here to give evidence on that portion of
the matter, which I have not done

18611. Then please do not ?I could give you plenty of
proof of it.

18612. That is like saying that you have not come here
to give it, but you are ready to give it P—«Yes.

18613. But you would not offer to give expert evidence
on that?—~—No; Iam not an “expert” on that matter. I
should have to give you the evidence of others.

18614. What do you think about the right of man to
cause pain in field sports ?~-—I have noticed that questions
of this kind have been put to other witnesses—questions
designed to show that there are grievous inﬂictions of pain
on the lower animals, in connection with the rearing of
animals designed for food, with the slaughter of those
animals, with what is called “ sport” ; and that those who
desire to prevent vivisectionist cruelty are inconsistent in
not proceeding at one and the same time against all these
forms of cruelty, that by eating ordinary butcher’s meat
they are participes c-Vz'i-n'im's in. the castration of animals and
the horrors of the slaughter-house. I wonder that the
argument was not pushed a step farther, and that it was
not pointed out to vegetarians that they obtain their bread
by the painful extermination of animals. \Vhen the
ploughshare-———which is an instrument used in the procuring
of the corn from which bread is made~~~«passes through the
ground it cuts up alive innumerable earthworms; and
rabbits and other animals which compete with us for the
possession of our vegetable food are killed by methods
which undoubtedly involve serious pain. Under the con-
ditions of human existence I do not see how we could
avoid killing and the inﬂiction of some pain. In so far as,
in the matters referred to, the inﬂiction of pain is
avoidable, it ought to be avoided. But I decline to pursue
the matter farther. I am reminded of the case of the boy
who was told that he might have all the nuts in a certain
jar, but that he must take them out with one handful. He
found, however, that when he tool: them in his hand his
ﬁst was too large to get through the opening of the jar. I
would be glad to abolish all forms of cruelty at a single
blow; but I would ﬁnd the matter in hand too large, and
would be unable to get my ﬁst through the opening of the
political jar. But why commence with Vivisection? Be-

53

 

 

 




    

  
   

cause vivisection sanctiﬁes cruelty by investing it in the
garb of science, by making knowledge the primary object
of pursuit. It is not only hideously immoral in practice,
but sets up an ethical theory of the primacy of scientiﬁc
curiosity which is ruinous to the ethical ideal, debauching
to the intellect, and demoralizing to mankind.

18615. Do I gather from that answer that you would
approve of ﬁeld sports, in so far as they are painful, being
put down by law ?—-——-No ; I must decline to go into that.

18616. Do you mean that you decline to answer ?——Yes.

18617. \Nhy do you decline to answer ?—~That is my
answer—~simply because I will. not go into any further
matter now. Iam attacking vivisection. I do not want
my hand too full. to get through the opening in the jar.

18618. But that is not the question. I think one has a
pefect right to put questions to ﬁnd out how far you are
consistent ?—~I do not think you will ever ﬁnd out that I
am not; you may try that as much as you like.

18619. But if you do not answer we cannot ﬁnd out ?—--I
have given you my answer.

18620. No, you have not, excuse me. I asked you
whether you would approve of ﬁeld sport being put down
by legislation in so far as it is painful ?——~That does not
appear to me to be the question.

18621. You decline to answer ?————Yes; further than I
have already answered.

18622. Do you justify the killing of animals in order to
convert their hides into leather-Pm—Yes.

18623. You think that is justiﬁable? ————— Yes.

18624. Could substitutes for leather not be found, per-
haps to man’s discomfort, but still", you would not represent
it as absolutely essential that men should be shod with
leather ?———No; I say that if by progress of dietetics and
economic progress of the kind you show that we can get
rid of killing animals for food and leather and other things
altogether, no one would rejoice more than I; and I
think that the future may bring us to it.

18625. But is any question of right or wrong involved in
rearing animals in order to kill them to provide us with
shoe leather ?~—eI do not think the thing is carried on. I
never heard of it being done. ‘

18626. Do you think that the value of an ox’s hide does
not enter at all into the agriculturist’s calculations ?~It
does, but the ox is not reared for that only.

18627. It is reared in part for this ?~——It enters into the
consideration, but it is reared for its ﬂesh and its horns
and its hide and its hair; it is reared for the whole. It

 

 

 

54




 

 

would be putting a part for the Whole to say that it was
reared for the purpose oJ its hide.

18628. I said, was it reared in pa1t for the purpose of its
' hide ?——Y es.

18629. Is there any ethical. side to that question at all?
———I do not think that there is, as we are situated now.

(Sir 1 01m 1W cFadyean here took the Chair.)

18630. (Sir M’ackenzie Chalmers.) In reference to Professor
Metchinkoff’s lecture, were you quoting from the lecture,
or were you giving us a summary of what you thought it
meant ?~—It was a quotation. I have the “Journal. of
Preventive Medicine” here for you to verify it, if you like.

18631. I refer especially to a passage which I did not
understand to be a quotation, about the inoculation of
syphilis ?——~< I hat 18 not a quotation.

18632. ‘Nhat is that ?~~—It is a description of a passage in
Professor Metchinkoff’s book, evidently too short to be a
quotation.

18633. I read the lecture mySelJ, and I should not have
abstracted it in the same way Pam-Perhaps not, but I contend
for the accuracy of my abstract, and I shall be quite willing
to append to my evidence the passage of which it is an
abstract, in order that readers my see whethe1 it is a fair
abstract or not. *

18634. lhat perhaps might be useful. As regards the
case to which you have referred of inoculation of cancer by
somebody named Eugen Hahn, can \ou tell us who Eugen
Hahn was, and where he performed this experiment ?—~—~You
will see it in D1. Smidovich 8 book

18635. Can you tell us the date and where it was per—
formed ?—~—Y on will find it on page 125. “In March, 1887,
a woman, suffering from cancer oi the mammary gland,
applied to the surgeon, Eugen Hahn, of Berlin. The
performance of an operation was impossible. ‘Not Wishing
to divulge before the patient the hopelessness of her con-

 

* The passage is as follows :—~~“Only to those persons who are ex~
posed to the greatest risk of acquiring human syphilis could one propose
vaccination with an attenuated virus In point of fact, the hypothesis
that this vaccine might provoke more serious complications than true
human syphilis is not admissible , at any rate, it is not based 011 any
scientiﬁc data. The persons liable to benefit from vaccination would at
ﬁrst have to be selected from among the beginners in prostitution. It is
an established fact that these women only in exceptional cases escape
syphilis. As almost all of them are, therefore, most liable to acquire this
disease vaccination VR ould be an advantage for them, as well as for the
men having intercourse with them; but in practice the carrying out of this
proposal meets With serious di Jiiculties since the beginners 111 prostitution
211e xeiy young, and almost always minors.

55

 

 




  

    

dition by declining to operate upon her, and so as to relieve
and reassure her by the psychical illusion of having per—
formed the operation,’ Dr. Hahn removed a portion of the
tumour of the patient’s diseased breast, and transplanted it
into the other healthy one.” (handing in the boo/e).
~ 18636. The object of this experiment seems to have been

to prevent the poor woman understanding that her case
was hopeless ?-~~~No, that was not the object of putting a
portion of the cancerous material into the healthy breast.

18637. I am only reading the words of the book: “ ‘Not
wishing to divulge before the patient the hopelessness of
her condition by declining to operate upon her, and so as
to relieve and reassure her by the 1:.)sychical illusion of
having performed the operation,’ Dr. Hahn. removed a por-
tion of the tumour of the patient’s diseased breast, and
transplanted it into the other healthy one ; the inoculation
was successful.” It conveys that idea to me ?———-~But it does
not convey that idea to me; and. if you notice, the book it-
s’elf from which this is described. is called “ Ueber Trans—
plantation cler Carcin ”; that is to say, the book itself is
on the transplantation of cancer, and this was an experi-
ment in the transplantation of cancer.

18638. (Sir J 011.11 A/fcli'adyccm.) Then do you maintain
that that is a false suggestion ?——No, I do not.

Sir John McFadyean seemed quite indignant at the supposition
that I might be attributing a falsehood to Eugen Hahn. I made
no such suggestion, and I answered accordingly. But may I ask
why we should believe Hahn’s statement that he performed an
operation to relieve and reassure his patient? Why should we
believe that this woman’s case was really a hopeless one? The
only evidence we have is the statement of a man who confessed
his guilt of as foul a betrayal of his patient as I am able to con-
ceive. Even if he really thought the woman‘s case was hopeless,
this would not justify him in doing anything to her detriment.
Doctors are not infallible. They are very far from being so, as
the best of them confess; and there is no need that I should
attempt to characterize the physician or surgeon, who, basing his
action on the conclusion that his patient must die, dares to inflict
on that patient a frightful disease.

18639. How do you reconcile that with your interpreta—
tion of it ?———\What do you mean?

18640. This represents that the main purpose of the
experiment was to reassure the patient; is that false .9.”
That was a reason for performing some operation on her,
.but it is not the reason for the transplantation of a portion
of the cancer from the one breast to the other breast.

I8641. (Sir llfackenzie Chalmers.) The passage speaks for
“itself ?——~I do not think it does in the sense you mean.

18642. Then we cannot get any further. This book was

56

 

 

 




 

 

translated in 1904 ?~~lt VV as published in 1904.] do not
know when it was translated; it might have been trans-
lated in 1903.

18643. I see that the author of the book “The Confessions
of a Physician ” seems to have two names ?——-—He published
the book under the name of Veresaelt, but his real name is
Sm idovich. i

18644. Is anything known about him except that he was
a young Russian doctorPA-wl do not know very much about
him. I know that his book has been translated into
various European languages, and from the reading of the
book I judge that although he is a very strong and
passionate vivisectionist, at all events 11 1is trutthlness has
been unaIIected, and it gives me the idea of a man who
speaks very frankly indeed respecting what he has done

18645. Have we any reason for knowingt that any of his
statements were pe1sonal expeiienre and not a sort oI
medical romance ?———I do not think that anybody who has
read that book would sav that it was a ioinance; and the
reviews that have taken place (you will. Iind one of them
from the T111183, appended inside the cover oI the book), are
of a kind to show that it is a serious book.

I cannot do better, in conclusion, than to quote part of the
Times" review of this important book. It will be noted that the
Times is thoroughly pro-vivisectionist, and. deprecates the author’s
disclosures ; but it admits “that he is no ‘ crank,’ but an acute and
fair-minded observer——too acute and fair-minded to square with
a conventional standard or to please those who are bound by it.
Whether it is expedient to make such disclosures as these, or to
make them in this manner is another question. So long as he
conﬁnes himself to his own experiences no serious objection can
he raised; but when he launches forth into other matters ’v—e. g
Chapter viii——-—“the case is diIIerent. There are some chapters
which deal with matters so unpleasant that their discussion can
hardly be defended except on the ground that truth is always its
own justiﬁcation . . . . Dr. ‘Veresaeff’ is clearly a high-
minded and conscientious man, but we cannot help thinking he
has been led occasionally to go beyond his better judgment
The objection to the publication of the details in question is not
that they undermine confidence in the medical profession at large
-—~~»-for a conﬁdence which rests on concealment or mystiﬁcation is
not worth preserving—~but that, though true in fact, they over—
emphasize excreSCences and become the instruments of error in
the hand of unscrupulous persons ”mile. Anti-Vivisectionists.

.a- ‘

\fbv‘"

 

 




   
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
      
         
     
     
     
     
   
               
          

   

AFTER IHE EXAMINATION.

 

On January 31d, 1908, I wrote as follows to the Chair»

man of the Royal Commission of Vivisection :

My Lord,»

I am instructed by my Committee to make a further
appeal to your lordship and the Royal Commission
on Vivisection to accept the Appendix to my Précis
as a portion of my evidence. If your lordship will be
so kind as to look at that evidence, you will see that
Iliad frequently to answer questions by reference to that
Appendix. These answers were intelligible because the
matter referred to had been read by the Commissioners,
but will not be fully understood by Parliament or the
public if they have no opportunity of reading that to
which they refer.

 

1\’I1:1reover, after the word “ship," at the commencement
of line 23 of Q 18552, Sir Wm. Church, who was in the
Chair, interposed with the remark: “I would ask Mr
levy not to spend much longer in dealing with Sir John
I‘ltetcher Moultons evidenre. The Commissioners have
it before them and can judge it for themselves. To this
I replied: “I will not occupv much more of your time on
it—v-not more than two or three minutes ‘ ; and I answeied
Q. 18553 partly by reIerence to the Appendix to my

récz's.

 

I attach no great importance to the fact that this
ruling on the part of the Chairman and my submission
to it have been omitted from the report provided the
Appendix to my [’1éczs be printed as a portion of my
e1idenc;e but it is 1111-3211 that, if this be not done, and

58

 




 

 

 

Parliament and the public be not informed how I was
induced by the Chairman to make my reply in part by
way of reference, less than justice will be done to me.

Your lordship seems to have been under the impression
that my Appendixwas a pamphlet. I stated. on page 2 of
my Précz’s, that it is an “extract from my essays on the
Ethics of Vivisection”; andl enclose herewith the book
containing those essays so that the Commission may be
able to verify that statement if they wish to do so. This
extract, if appended to my evidence, could be headed
“ Appendix,” not “ Ethics of Vivisection.”

I very much regret that I had not some notice of the
questions of case morals to be raised by the Commission.
Such questions, put without notice, or time for considera-
tion, do not elicit the best answers. I would have been
very glad to have had a better opportunity of stating the
mediate principles of ethics involved, and would be very
pleased to expand or put a footnote to my reply to
Question 18531, if Sir W. ]. Collins does not object.

With regard to vivisectional cruelty, whether to man
or beast, my main principle is, as stated on page 2 of
my précis, “that scientiﬁc motive is no justiﬁcation of an
act which is otherwise to be condemned. as immoral.”
This is an easy deduction from the wider principle that
motive does not morally legitimize conduct otherwise
to be Condemned as immoral. The leading Inquisitors
were actuated by good motives and, as Buckle showed,
were good men in their private lives; but these facts
do not legitimize their cruelties.

I regret that I was not asked what I would say with
regard to future legislation on Vivisection. I answered.
negatively on the subject, in reply to Questions 18525—7; ,
but on the positive aspect of the question I had no i
opportunity of saying anything. If the Commission would 9” ‘
accord to me another half—hour of their time, I would be
very pleased to answer any question on this subject, or on
the .mediate principles of morals which apply to our
control and treatment of animals.

I have the honour to be,
' My Lord,
Your obedient servant, ,
(Signed) I. H. LEVY.
The Right Hon. Viscount Selby.

 

5‘9

 




     
 

AS, 011 30th January, 1908, I had received no reply, I
wrote as follows to Viscount Selby

  
  

  

My Lord,————A

On the 3rd inst. I took the liberty of addressing to your
lordship a letter, and enclosing copy of the book from
which the Appendix to my Pvécis of Evidence is an extract.
As I have received neither reply nor acknowledgment and
nearly a month has elapsed, I enclose a copy of that letter
~—~-—which I addressed to your lordship rather than to the
Secretary of the Commission, because it contained a sug-
gestion that you had misapprehended the nature of the
Appendix. to my Précisi‘ I thought it would be more
courteous to make this statement direct to your lordship.

MayI add that by far the best solution of the difﬁculty
which has arisen would be for the Commission to submit
me to further examination? Such examination need not
extend beyond half-an-hour, though I would be very glad
to submit to extended cross-examination, if that were
thought desirable.

 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
 

 

 

I have the honour to be,
My Lord,
Your obedient servant,
(Signed) J. H. LEVY.
The Right Hon. Viscount Selby,

Royal Commission on Vivisection.

To this I received the following reply 2*“

 
 

3, Buckingham Gate, SW.
4th February, 1908.
Dear Sir,-—~~ ,

 

 
 

I regret to hear that you received no acknowledgment of.
your letter of the 3rd. January. I was under the impression
that it had been answered by the Secretary, and. must
apologize for what was either my neglect or his—-probably
mine.

        
     
 

My own impression is that you had a full and fair
opportunity of orally giving your opinions to the Commit—

60

      




 

 

tee, that you gave them with great ability. If in reading.
your evidence it occurred to you that here and there you
might improve on the answers which you gave, were the
questions repeated, that is the common fate of all who read
shorthand notes of what they have said. Ithink that the
questions which were put to you by different Commis—
sioners to test your opinions were the same kind of
questions as were put to the numerous other witnesses who
have expressed opinions of the same kind as your own

However, when the Commission meets again in March I
will lay this letter before it, and if there is any general
feeling that you ought to be further heard, I certainly
should not raise any objection, though I should express my
opinion that it was unnecessary.

I am, dear Sir,
You rs faithfully,

(Signed) SELLBY.

To this I replied, on 5th I“ebruary,,1908 : -------
My Lord,—

I am very unwilling to intrude upon your lordship; but,
in your kind letter which I received yesterday, the grava-
men. of my complaint is ignored. Iquite agree that the
Commission is under no obligation to re-examine me; and.
I proposed such re-examination only as the most facile
means out of a difﬁculty. But I maintain that the Com-
mission is under a moral obligation to publish the
Appendix to my Précis as a portion of my evidence. Your
lordship did not examine me on it, and I was obliged, as.
I have pointed out, to make my replies by way of reference
to it, and those replies will necessarily be unintelligible to
Parliament and the; public if that Appendix, and Sir Wm.
Church’s direction to me from the Chair, be suppressed.

With. regard to my request to be allowed to amplify my
reply, as reported, to Q 18531, I admit, of course, that this
is a matter of grace; but it appears to me that the Com—
mission will be assuming a serious responsibility by
refusing to permit me to make that reply somewhat fuller,
in order that it may not misrepresent the principles which.
I hold on the subject referred to.

As regards my desire to lay before the Commission my
conclusions, and those of my Association, with reference to

 

6 I

 




 

future legislation on Vivisection,l will conﬁne myself to
saying that I believe my evidence in this respect would be
altogether unlike any which has been placed before the
Commission, and that it would at least provide a useful
basis for the Commission’s deliberations. I could, of
course, send your lordship those conclusions in a letter, and
will do so if desired ; but the full strength of my position
would not be manifest unless I were crossexamined on it.

I have the honour to be,
My Lord,
Your obedient servant,
(Signed) J H. LEVY.
The Right Hon. Viscount Selby.

This will at least show my desire for further cross—
exami‘nation, an :1. my faith in the result of it. A

With regard to future legislation on the subject of
Vivisection, if that practice is to be tolerated in any way,
I think it is for the Vivisectors themselves to show how this
can be done—~—if it can be done~-with sufﬁcient guarantees
against cruelty. If they can do this, then let us embody
these guarantees in law. But if-~as I strongly suspect—e
they cannot do it, or do not wish to do it, then one of two
courses, it appears to me, is open to the nation. (1) Vivi-
section should be totally prohibited, with the proviso that
proof that the animal’s sentient life had. ended before the
alleged vivisection' commenced should be accepted as a
sufﬁcient defence; or (2) the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876
(39 and 40 Vict., c. 77:), should be repealed, and Vivisectors
should be liable to prosecution for cruelty to animals just
in the same way that non—vivisectors are so, under the
Cruelty to Animals Acts, 1849 and 1854, with the proviso
that scientiﬁc motive should be no defence to a prosecution
under these Acts.

With respect to (I) I may say that this procedure would
be similar to that in the Act of 1854 (I7 and 18 Vict., c. 60),
Section II. No one who has been in Belgium would con-
tend that the use of dogs for the purposes of draught is
invariably accompanied by cruelty ; but as Parliament did
not see how the cruelty could be put down without pro-
hibiting altogether the use of dogs for. draught, it did this.

I may add that I have no faith whatever in the suppres-
sion of cruelty by further bureaucratic control.

62

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

RECENT PUBLICATIONS BY

P. S. KING & SON , Westminster.

A HISTORY OF THE ENGLISH AGRICULTURAL
LABOURER.

By Dr. W. HASBACH, Professor of Political Science in the University of Kiel. Trans—I
lated from the German into English by RUTH KENYON. Demy 8vo, Cloth. 75. 6d,
net.

 

 

 

 

| A HISTORY OF THE BANK OF ENGLAND. ’ ]

By Professor A. ANDREADES, of the University of Athens. Translated from the
FrenchintO English by Mrs. C. M. MEREDITH. \Vith an introduction by Professor
H. S. FOX\VELL. Demy 8vo, cloth. 103. 6d. net.

[ CO=OPERATION AT HOME AND ABROAD. |

A DESCRIPTION AND ANALYsIs. By C. R. FAY, B.A., Fellow of Christ’s College, Cam~
bridge, and Lecturer in Economics. Demy 8vo. Cloth. 105. 6d. net.

| THE KING’S REVENUE. |

An account of the Revenue and Taxes raised in the United Kingdom, with a short history
of each Tax and Branch of the Revenue. By \V. M. J WILLIAMS, Author of “ Local
Taxation,” 82c. Demy 8vo, cloth. 63. net.

LPHILANTHROPY AND THE STATE. I

By B. KIRKMAN GRAY, Author of “A History of English Philanthropy.” Demy 8vo,
Cloth. 73. 6d. net.

Contents—PART I.——TI-IE TRANSITION IN THOUGHT.—Philanthropists and
Politicians—Social Forces—Amateur or Professional——The Town, 1833-44—The City, or the
Growth of Civic Consciousness—Philanthropists in Ofﬁce—The Poor Law ----- —The Charity
Organisation Society. PART II.—THE INTERVENTION OF THE STATE.—Types
of State Intervention~Annexation-Co-operation~—Supervision—Inebriate HomesmCruelty
to Children—Hospitals-—-Tuberculosis——Public HealtlimVVidows and Orphans~~Old People
and Children.

[ LEISURE FOR WORKMEN 5: NATIONAL WEALTH. |

By Major A. G. JOHNSON. Demy SW), 35. 6d. net.

Contents—Criticism of the Orthodox Theories Of National Wealth, Capital, Production
and Free Competition—Production as a Means to Consumption“Population—Commerce--—-
Taxation—Rent-—Private Propertv~Past and Present Attempts to Regulate Industry-w

The Time Policv——Nati0nal Econom and the British Em ire.
. Y P

LTHE LIQUOR TRADE.

THE CASE FOR MUNICIPAL DRINK TRADE. By EDWARD R. PEASE,
Secretary Fabian Society. Second Edition, 15. net.

Contents.-~The Need for Reform~Alternatives to Municipalisationﬂﬂigh Licencer- ,
.I.Ocal Veto—~Legislation and Consumption—~State Management Abroad—Public Manage-
ment in Great Britain—«The Case for Municipalisation~—Problems in Municipal NIanage—
ment—An Outline Scheme-—Bibliographical NotewIndex.

|' RAILWAYS AND NATIONALISATION. |

By EDWIN A. PRATT, Author of “German v. British Railways,“ “State Railways,”
&c. Crown 8vo, cloth. 464 pages. 25. 6d. net.

lONDON : P. 8. KING & SUN, Orchard House, WESTMINSTER.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




THE PERSONAL RIGHTS ASSOCIATION.

170 Ul/VDEI) 14% MARCH,

1871.

 

 

OFFICES: n, ABBEVILLE ROAD, LONDON,IS.W.

 

Vice=Presidents :

Professor W. STEADMAN ALDIS.

Alderman W. L. BEURLE.

Councillor]. T. BIGGS, JP.

Mr. THOMAS COLBY, J.P.

Mr. SYDNEY A. GIMSON.

Miss ANNIE GOFF.

M. YVES GUYOT, late Minister
of Public Works of France.

Mr. ARNOLD LUPTON, MP.

Mr. VVALTER MCLAREN, Ex‘MP.

Mr. ALFRED NIILNES, MA.

 

Signor ERNESTO NATHAN,
Syndic of Rome.
Mrs. E. F. RICHARDS.
Mr. H. C. STEPHENS, Ex-MP.
CHARLES BELL TAYLOR, M.D.,
F.R.C.S.E.

Mr. VVILLIAM TEBB.

Mr. F. THOMASSON, M.P.

Mrs. JOHN P. THOMASSON.

Mr. S. VAN HOU'I‘EN, late Minw
ister of the Interior,HolIand.

Hon. Solicitor: Mr. W. P. W. PHILLIMORE, M.A., B.C.L. Oxon.

Hon. Sec. and Treasurer: Mr. J. H. LEVY.

Assistant Secretary : Mrs. LORENZA GARREAU.

Bankers: PARR’S BANK (CHARING CROSS BRANCH), LIMITED.

 

 

 

What the Personal Rights Association is, and why
you should join it.

r.-~-BECAUSE it has, throughout its existence of over thirty—seven
years, consistently maintained the principle of the equality
of all citizens before the law, without regard to wealth,
birth, sex, culture, race, religious belief, or any other
circumstances whatever save the responsibilities which are
implied in respect for the rights of others.

2.~~—BECAUSE it would maintain Government just so far as, but
no farther than, is necessary for the maintenance of the
largest freedom; and in applying this, would have equal
regard to the liberty of all citizens.

3.-~-—--BECAUSE, therefore, it is equally Opposed to the tyranny of
the Few Over the Many and the tyranny of the Many over
the Few——to the use of all the force in our intercourse with
our fellows, men and women, save that minimum which is
required in order to maintain freedom at the maximum.

4.«~BECAUSE it disregards the empty catchwords of party, and
desires to unite justice-loving women and men in opposition
to encroachments on the domain of individual rights, from
whatever quarter these encroachments may come.

 

SUBSCRIPTIONS and DONATIONS are earnestly requested, and should
he made payable to the Treasurer. Cheques and Postal Orders should be crossed
“ Parr's Bank (Charmg Cross Branch), a/c of Personal Rights Association.

N.B.--“THE INDIVIDUALIST,” the organ of the Association, may be
obtained at the oliices of the Association, Price. 2d. per single copy. or 15. 0d. per

:mnum. posted to any address within the I’ostal Union.

hers of the Association.

It is sent free to all Mem~~

 

 




 

 

 




 




