Leaﬂet N0. 84.

WHY DOCKING IS CRUEL

BY JOHN L. SHORTALL, CHICAGO, ILL.
President The Illinois Humane Society

[Paper presented before The American Humane Association, Oct. 2, 1911,
at San Francisco, California]

\Vhen the practice of tail—docking was ﬁrst begun is not known.
The Greeks and Romans admired the elegant proportions of the
horse altogether too much to allow them to be destroyed. The
inane, forelock and tail were considered as ornaments, and Xeno—
phon says: “ The mane, forelock and tail are the gifts of the Gods,
bestowed on the horse for beauty.” Simon says: “Let him hold
his tail high, and have it thick at the base and long.” Varro speaks
of the tail as “ full and curly,” and Oppean, depicting a well—formed
horse, says, “ his long—haired tail should flow out far behind him.”

The mutilation of horses by cutting off their tails was practiced
very early in the history of England. Laws existed as early as
A. D. 876 prohibiting docking. In the laws of Howel the Good, “ if
a person lamed a horse he should forfeit the value of the animal,
and if he mutilated him he should forfeit the third part of the
value to the owner. lE-fle that cut off the hair from a borrowed
horse's tail was obliged to maintain the animal till it had grown
again, and had, in the meantime, to furnish the owner with another
horse. But if a person cut off the hair from a stallion’s tail, he was
ﬁned twenty—four pence, and if the fail was ClZOﬂPed Off, the horse
was deemed unﬁt for service.

At the Council of Celchyth, or Calcinth, held A. D. 785, a rebuke
was administered to those who mutilated animals in a canon
(passed).

“From the inﬂuence of a vile and unbecoming custom, you deform
and mutilate your horses; you slit their nostrils; tie their ears
together, and by doing so make them deaf. Besides this you cut off
their tails ; and when you enjoy them uninjured and perfect, you
choose rather to maim and blemish them, so as to make them
odious and disgustful objects to all who see them. Numbers of
you. likewise. are accustomed to eat your horses—a practice of
which no Christians in the East were ever guilty. This also you are
admonished to renounce entirely.”

I

 




 

There is an old proverb which says that “it is better to be the
head of an ass than the tail of a horse.”

The nervous system of the horse is highly developed, and his
sensitiveness is greater than that of any other of the domestic
animals. This extreme sensitiveness is more particularly mani—
fested in the skin, and especially when the horse is tormented by
insects. In order to shield him from them, nature has endowed
him with better protection than she has other animals. She has
furnished him with a long mane that curtains the neck; a continua—
tion of it, the forelock over the face to guard the ears and eyes,
and a long sweeping tail that acts as a brush or whisk to remove
insects that settle on parts of the skin acutely sensitive.

Another most extraordinary weapon is furnished the horse in
the form of a well developed muscle (the panniculus carnosus),
which belongs especially to the skin, and the principal function of
which is to corrugate the skin by a series of rapid spasmodic con—
tractions, which shake off the flies and other insects.

The tail is composed of a number of small bones, from ﬁfteen to
eighteen, continued from the spine, with strong muscles which raise,
depress, or curve it to either side; there are also nerves and blood—
vessels, but the spinal cord does not extend into it. The whole is
covered by ﬁne and closely adherent skin throughout its whole
length. Its length is from one to two feet. That part, consisting
of the bones, muscles, and skin is termed the “ clock.”

I n 1681 Markham, in his “ Masterpiece,” tells us how the opera-
tion was performed. The tail was ﬁrst tied round at the third joint
with a piece of cord, which was made very tight and intended to
prevent bleeding; then the tail was hacked off between the third
and fourth joints: this was effected by laying the tail on a block
of wood, placing a knife on the upper surface, then with a great
smith’s hammer, striking upon the back of the knife, cut the tail
asunder. The bleeding stump that remained was seared with a
hot iron of a certain shape until it was black and hard. “ Sear the
ﬂesh until you have mortiﬁed it.” When there was no longer danger
of bleeding, the cord was untied, and the wound dressed until the
dead portions slo-ughed away and a cicatrix (scar) had formed.

Sometimes the edge of the knife was applied to the under sur-
face of the tail, the upper surface of which was struck with the
heavy mallet or hammer.

This operation must have been painful beyond belief, and it often
resulted in mortiﬁcation and death. .

The docked tail was next rigidly ﬁxed in an unright position by
an operation called “ Nicking.” The muscles on the under part of
the tail (depressor) were cut and the truncated tail elevated and
kept so until the wounds healed. After cutting the muscles that

2

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

held the tail down, the horse was conﬁned in a stall, not allowed
to lie down for many days, while the shred of tail was attached to
weights by mean of cords that run through pulleys fastened above
in the ceiling of the stable. Until the wounds were nearly healed
and the tail had been ﬁxed at an acute angle to the croup, this
restraint could not be dispensed with. The operation was dan—
gerous and careful attention was required, and not always given
after the operation.

Tail mutilation and its results as effecting the comfort and wel—
fare of the animals has been demonstrated in war—when the
English cavalry suffered severely from attacks of ﬂies to such an
extent at times that the horses were almost useless and frantic
with the pain and torture inﬂicted by the ﬂies which they were
powerless to ﬁght, and from which they could not protect them-
selves, e. 9., at Dettingen, 1743, at Fritzlar, Hochkirch, and Wil—
lensthal, etc., at Minden during seven years’ war.

George'III, we are told by Berenger in his “ Gentleman to the
Horse,” in his wisdom and humanity, endeavored to reclaim his
subjects by issuing an order that the horses which serve in his
troops should remain as nature designed them.

It used to be that some breeders unceremoniously performed
the operation of docking by backing the animal to a gate, upon
the top rail of which his tail is rested, and then with a mallet and,
a la1ge knife it is chopped off at a stroke, and without any steps
being taken to arrest his hemorrhage. '

About 40 0' 50 years ago ( 1850) natural tails were the fashion,
but about 1870 the vile fashion of docking was revived, due some
say to the popularity of polo.

It was also claimed that it was dangerous to employ horses with
undocked tails, as the reins are liable to get under these, and cause
kicking and running away.

None of the excuses offered for docking have any merit; the
operation is a painful and useless one, and, therefore, justly
deserved the designation of “ cruel.” All lovers of horses should
protest against this absurd and pernicious mutilation.

ODIOUS FASHIONS. ARE RECURRENT AMONG US

In 1889, Chief Justice Hawkins, in giving his opinion on a case
of cruelty to animals, incidentallyreferred to “ docking ” of horses,
and said, “ I hold a very strong opinion against allowing fashion
or the whims of individualsto afford a justiﬁcation for such pain-

3

 

 




 

.9

ful .mutilation.” Alluding to ear cropping, docking, etc., he added,
“ These instances indicated his view, that the legality of a painful
operation must be governed by the necessity for it, and even where
a desirable and legitimate object was sought to be obtained, the
nature of the operation and the pain caused thereby must not so
far outbalance the importance of the end as to make it clear to any
reasonable mind that it is better that the object should be aban—
doned, rather than the suffering should be inﬂicted.”

\Vhen the tail is the seat of disease or injury which cannot. be
cured, it is permissible to dock.

In France, Germany and Italy, docking was practiced for the pur—
pose of improving their appearance only, no other reason being
pretended. ‘

In the United States lawshave been passed speciﬁcally prohibit-
ing it, in addition to the general anti—cruelty laws, in many states.
The B‘Iassachusetts law is as follows: “Whoever cuts the bones
of the tail of any horse for the purpose of docking the tail, or who—
ever causes or knowingly permits it to be done upon the premises
of which he is the owner, lessee, proprietor, or user, or whoever
assists in or is present at such cutting, shall be punished by impris—
onment in the jail not exceeding one year, or by ﬁne Of not less than
One Hundred Dollars nor more than Three Hundred Dollars. If a
horse is found with his tail so cut, and with the wound from such
cutting unhealed, upon the premises of any person, such facts shall
be prima facie evidence that the person who occupies or has the
use of such premises on which a horse is so found, has committed
the offense described. If a horse is found with its tail so cut, and
with the wound resulting from such cut unhealed, in the charge or
custody of any person, such facts shall be p-rima fa-cie evidence that
the person having the charge or custody of such horse has com-
mitted the offense charged above.”

This law was copied by Connecticut in 1895 and Minnesota in

1899.

' The most important and noteworthy provision of this law, viz.:
“ If a horse is so found with its tail so cut and with the wound
resulting from such cutting unhealed, upon the premises of any
person or in the charge and custody of any person, such fact shall
be prima facie evidence of a violation, etc.”

The. Massachusetts law has been applied successfully; many
cases of docking prosecuted thereunder and convictions Obtained
in all cases. It does not except from“ its proviSions those cases
wherein the operation is necessary, vi‘z.: in case of disease or‘injury.

4

Hwy-i




The State of Illinois passed a law against docking in 1891, as
follows: ‘

“ Be it enacted by the people of the State of Illinois, represented
in the General Assembly; that whoever cuts the solid part of the
tail of any horse in the operation known as docking, or by any
other operation to be performed for the purpose of shortening the
tail, and whoever shall causethe same to: be done, or assist in doing
such cutting, unless the same is proved to be a beneﬁt to the horse,
shall be punished by imprisonment in the County Jail not exceeding
one year, or by a ﬁne of not less than twenty—ﬁve nor more than
two hundred dollars.”

Although Illinois copied from the Massachusetts law, and hoped
to get on her statute books practically the same law—when the bill
ﬁnally passed the legislature it was divested. of the good elements
and left with a provision, viz: “unless the same is proved to be a
beneﬁt to the horse,” which made it easy for those desiring. to evade
the law by making a plausible defense. in case of prosecution. - It
may have been in the mind of the legislator to‘ improve upon the
Massachusetts law in the way of excepting cases of disease and
injury from its provisions.

The District of Columbia passed a simila1 law in 1892, and
endeav01ed to supersede it with a law copied from the Colorado
Act of 1899, but without success.

The State of Maine passed an Anti—Docking Law in 1893 similar
to that enacted in Illinois without, however, providing for impiis—
onment, and only a ﬁne of One Hundred Dollars as the penalty.

The Ohio law provides that the owner or person in custody,
control or possession of a docked ho1se, or agent 01 employee of
such owner or person in custody or control, shall be punished for
the offense by ﬁne or imprisonment. The burden of proving the
offense is cast upon the prosecutor. '

Statutes similar to the Massachusetts law were passed in Utah,
1901; in Washington, 1901, and California, 1901.

“ \Vhoever shall cut the Solid part of the tail of any horse in
the operation known as “docking” or in any other operation per—
formed for the purpose of shortening the tail, and whoever shall
cause the same to be done, 01 assist in doing such cutting, is guilty
of a misdemeanor

The Ohio statute appears to be the only one of those mentioned
that recognizes a‘ possible necessity for docking on account of
injury or disease—the only two justiﬁable reasons or causes for
mutilating the horse. It IS at times necessary to remove a portion
of the tail of a horse in case of injury or disease, and the laws
should recognize this necessity and except all such cases from their
operation. -

U1

 

 




 

The Ohio statute is as follows:

Sec. 6951—1. Whoever, being the owner or having the custody,
control or possession of any horse, mare, gelding, foal or ﬁlly, or
who shall be an agent or employee of any such owner or person
having the custody, control or possession of any horse, mare, geld—
ing, foal. or ﬁlly, shall cut off or cause to be cut off or amputated,
the skin, ﬂesh, muscles, bones, and integuments of the dock or tail
of any such horse, mare. gelding, foal or ﬁlly, in order to shorten
the natural length or proportions of such dock or tail, or shall pull
out or cause to be pulled out, the hairs of the foretop, mane or
withers of any‘such horse, mare, gelding, foalor ﬁlly, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall
be ﬁned, for the ﬁrst oﬁfense not less than twenty—ﬁve dollars nor
more than two hundred dollars, or be imprisoned in the county
jail or work—house not exceeding six months, or both, at the dis—
cretion of the court; and for any subsequent offense under this act,
such person, on conviction, shallbe punished by a ﬁne not exceed—
ing the sum of ﬁve hundred dollars, and by imprisonment in the
county jail or Work—house for the period of one year. Provided,
that in case it shall be necessary in case of any accident, malforma-
tion or disease, which may affect the dock or tail of any such horse,
mare, gelding, foal or ﬁlly, to cut or amputate the same, such cut—
tingor amputation shall be deemed lawful. (90 v. 138.)

The most important legislation with reference to docking comes
from Colorado, where in 1899 the following law was passed:

Section I. It shall be unlawful for any personor persons to dock
the tail of any horse, within the State of Colorado, or to procure the
same to be docked,_or to importor bring into this State any docked
horse or'horses, or to drive, work, use, race or deal in any unregis—
tered docked horse, or horses within the State of Colorado.

Section 2. Provides that within 90 days from passage of this act,
all docked horses in use in Colorado shall be properly registered by
the owner or his agent. ‘

Section 3. The driving, working, keeping, racing or using of any
unregistered docked horse, or horses, after ninety days after the
passage of this act, shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the
fact that the party driVing, working, keeping, racing or using such
unregistered docked horse, or horses, 'docked‘the tail of such horse
or horses.

Section 4. Any person, or persons violating any of the provisions
' of this act shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon con-
viction, shall be punished by a ﬁne, in a sum not less than one hun-
dred dollars, nor more than ﬁve hundred dollars, or by imprison—
ment in County Jail, not less than thirty days, or more than ninety
days for each offense, or by‘both such ﬁne and impriSonment.

6

 

 

 




 

This act was approved April 6, 1899.

On April 10, 1905, an act was passed repealing certain parts of
1899 law to

I. prevent the docking of horses’ tails; or procuring the same
to be docked;

2. to prevent the importation or bringing into the State of docked '
horses ;

3. to require a registry of all docked horses now in the State of
Colorado;

4. to prevent the use of unregistered docked horses;

5. and to provide a penalty for the violation of the provisions of
this act, so far as it relates to the importation into, and use in, this
State of docked pure bred stallions and mares from foreign coun—
tries for breeding or exhibition purposes only, and to docked native
bred stallions and mares brought into this State and used for breed-
ing or exhibition purposes only, etc.

The State of New York has made an effort for several years past
to enact an anti—docking law so drawn as to contain all of the
improvements of the Colorado law and to improve on that legisla—
tion. The law as drafted, provides that it shall be unlawful for
any person‘or persons to dock the tail of any horse within the State
of New York, or to procure ,the same to be docked, or after the
expiration of one year from the time when this act takes effect, to
drive, work use, race, or deal in any unregistered docked horse,
or horses within the State of New York, etc. ,provides that all
docked horses shall be registered within the year by the owner
thereof, and that the possession of a docked horse unregistered after
the year has expired will be deemed a violation of the law._

The words “ dock” or “ docking” within the meaning of the act
are deﬁned as any means whereby the tail or any part thereof which
includes any po1tion of the caudal veitebrae, is removed from the
horse unless such removal be necessary to prevent or to cure any
disease 01 injury 20 the tail.

Provides that any person or persons violating any of the provi-
sions of this act shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction, shall be punished by a ﬁne, in a sum' not less than ﬁfty
dollars, nor more than ﬁve hundred dollars, or by imprisonment for
not less than thirty days, nor more than ninety days for each offense;
or by both such ﬁne and imprisonment.

The States that have enacted legislation with special reference
to docking are California, Colorado, Connecticut, District of Co—
lumbia, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota,
Nebraska, Ohio, VUtah and Washington.

7

 




 

 

 

 

In California, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Nebraska, Ohio, Utah and
Washington, the law provides substantially that any person who
cuts, or cutting the solid part of the tail of any animal in the
operation known as docking or whoever assists or causes the same
to be done, shall be punished, etc.

The burden of proof is, on the prosecution.

In Connecticut, Massachusetts and Minnesota the burden of proof
is on the person owning or having in possession a freshly or newly
“ docked” horse, the possession being prima facie evidence that the
owner “ docked” the horse himself or caused it to be “docked.”

In Colorado and Michigan the law seeks to eliminate “ docking”
by punishing all those hav1ng possess1on of an unregistered
“ docked” horse.

In South Dakota, it is said, horses are never docked because the
people have better sense. In Toledo, Ohio, several arrests and con—
victions put an end to the practice when the Ohio law ﬁrst came
into force.

Re importation of docked horses. ’
In United States vs. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S.

It is in the power of a state to protect the lives, health and prop—
erty of its citizens, and to preserve good order and the public
morals, the power to govern men and things within the limits of its
dominion.

This power has always belonged to the State and has never been
surrendered—and is exclusive.

On the other hand, the power to regulate commerce among the
several states is in Congress, and is exclusive. It is left free except
as Congress may see ﬁt to regulate 1t.

[Note—Copies of this address, and other humane literature, may be
obtained from The American Humane Assocration, Albany, N. Y.]

 




