  SCIENCE

AND THE

ILAW OF] KINDNESS.

BY

\.

, JOHN WILLIAM GRAHAM, M.A.,

Dalton Hall, T/ze Owens College, Manchester.

If'

I§gv~i_-~ug_§»—‘\/ / " <

\

A m... at»...
w

"‘NOT A SPARROW SHALL FALL ON THE GROUND

WITHOUT YOUR FATHER.”

’Prz'm‘ed for the Mani‘lzes'z‘er Friends" Anlz'- Vz'mkectz'on Society;
Secretary, M. L. Sutton, 9, Albert Square, Manchester.

LROBERTS 6r SONS, PRINTERS, CHAPEL STREET, SALFORD.

1894.

--— «3‘- ,y—yun—va— «a. ,n ,

 




 

 

 

 

 




LﬂL
- 1.

 

«J;

 

SCIENCE

AND THE

LAW OF KINDNESS.

BY

JOHN WILLIAM GRAHAM, M.A.,

Dalton Hall, The Owens College, Mane/tester.

 

“NOT A SPARROW SHALL FALL ON THE GROUND

WITHOUT YOUR FATHER.”

Printed for the Manchester Frz'ends’ A ntz'- Vz'vzkectz'on Society ;
Secretary, M. L. Sutton, 9, Albert Sguare, Manchester.

 

 

I. ROBERTS <52» SONS, PRINTERS, CHAPEL STREET, SALFORD.

1894.

 




 

 

 




 

 

 

 

SCIENCE AND THE LAW OF KINDNESS.

This is, unfortunately, a subject where not only is lightness of treatment
out of place, but where one can hardly be even pleasing, must tread
always on the verge of horrors, and impart, instead of pleasure, some of
that suffering which comes with sympathy.

It may be well to say at the beginning that my own conviction hasbeen
reached on moral grounds alone. After thinking for many years that this
was a matter which we might safely leave to medical men, I came recently
to the conclusion that there was a transcendental moral obligation which
was fatal to the whole system. The medical question is subsidiary, though
important. We will face it ﬁrst.

The medical part of this paper has had the beneﬁt of revision by two
able medical men, who have each given special attention to the subject—-
one himself a vivisector, the other (Dr. F. S. Arnold) an opponent of the
practice. It, therefore, possesses an authority to which the writer himself
could lay no claim. Let us begin with a brief outline of the situation, and
how it has arisen.

; {—7,}.

HISTORY.~—-Up to the present generation the great body of English
medical opinion was against vivisection, though individuals practised it
privately. So late as 1866 no courses of experimental physiology were
given in this country; but since then laboratories have been rapidly
organised, and quite a professional body of experimenters has arisen. It
is important to bear in mind that the great body of medical men are not
much concerned in this matter, and that they are divided in opinion upon
it. Vivisection has at present produced no results which much affect their
practice as healers ; they are outsiders to the vivisector’s laboratory, and,
When they are our opponents, reach an opinion about it from the medical
journals and from the professional instinct that “this people that knoweth
not the law” should not interfere with physiology. The professors, mean-
while, felt impatiently that, while other sciences were on every side
leaping up into a new and wonderful life, the medical group was lagging
behind, and something must be done. To wait for cases, and to make
the most of posi-morz‘em examinations was too slow for their zeal in
research; so an honourable desire to extend the bounds of knowledge co—
loperated with the consciousness that their professional rivals on the Con-
tinent were obtaining much credit from their less scrupulous methods.

l
.
w“
,
n,»
‘I'
.l“
a
a
i .
.
v.
\ l
"1-7
.,
,.
n
n
I
,1}
'5
.3
'« ‘ ‘
.
,:‘
r
1‘"
A
j
'l
" *2
"J
a
x,
..
in
,.
"ﬁ
,‘ l‘
’7
i A
‘, .
l
‘v;
(i!
it
.'1\|
v L.
, .‘. l_
. ,.
., ' fl
\,

.I‘
"‘- --....:..- --*».—--"-~-=- udiM‘" 3:" ’45:," 2.1-3? -""~""~ . V '-..’ '4"" ’

 




 

4.

This foreign competition caused our English researchers to overlook the
cruelty involved. About the same time the general introduction of
chloroform acted as a terribly effective anaesthetic to the consciences of
the experimenters, and to the lazy conclusions of the public.

THE SITUATION.——The war began in 1874, when, at a meeting of the
British Medical Association at Norwich, M. Magnan demonstrated the
effects of alcohol, a subject of which we are not entirely ignorant, by
inserting absinthe and other ﬂuids into the thighs of dogs tied down for
the purpose. The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
prosecuted the English doctors who assisted, and the fat was in the ﬁre.
The defendants were dismissed as not technically coming under the Act.
Public agitation took place. A Royal Commission was appointed, and
on their report the present Act was passed in 1876. It forbids vivisection
except to licensed operators, who are to report to an inspector, who is
himself of their own profession and doctrine (Prof. Poore, of University
College Hospital), and it delivers all such learned operators from any fear
of the ordinary Acts against cruelty to animals. When an operator desires
to be free from any restriction about anaesthetics, he applies for a certiﬁ-
cate granting such freedom; and holders of such certiﬁcates are left
absolutely to their own judgment in the use of any or of no anmsthetic.
The inspector does not in practice inspect; on an average he pays two
visits per annum to each laboratory, and then tabulates the results which
the operators furnish. There were I80 licenses out in 1892, and that does
not include the assistants who join with the licensed operator. There are
66 licensed places, and (1892) 3960 experiments were reported, of which
more than half (22 39) were wholly or partly performed without anaesthetics.
During the ten years 1882-92, the number of experiments has, roughly,
multiplied by ten. Probably in no other matter which the law undertakes
to watch is the execution of the Act left entirely to one of the class of men
who are to be unwillingly watched. A medical man who is against the
practice should be appointed as an additional inspector. These returns
do not include experiments which, even admitting slightly less keen
sensibility in a dog than in a man, cause pain as great as any of us have
probably ever had to endure, but which are not technically “painful.”
Our object is to make all vivisection illegal, and provide sufﬁcient inspec-
tion'to see that the law is obeyed. I am aware of the usual difﬁculty
about where to “ draw the line.” There is no reform not similarly met.
“Vivisection” is not easy to deﬁne, but there are at least two good
deﬁnitions in the ﬁeld. ‘

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

5

Ir—THE MEDICAL QUESTION. _

Let us ﬁrst clear our ideas about anaesthetics, and ask how far they save
pain: ———-

ANZESTHETICS.-—(i.) There are whole ranges of experiments in which
the object is to play upon the sensibility of the nerves, or in which, 1n
other ways, the anaesthetic would interfere with the result, and is never
used. The great discovery of the difference between the nerves by which
we feel and the nerves by which we move our muscles, was made by the
skill of Sir Charles Bell without vivisection, a practice which he both
distrusted and abhorred, but since his time the practice has been made a
curse to countless dogs. Blatin mentions hearing Flourens say that

Majendie had sacriﬁced 4,000 dogs to prove Bell’s theory of the nerves,

and 4,000 more to disprove the same ; and that he, F lourens, had shown,
by vivisecting still some thousands more, that Bell was right. To carry
on this apostolical succession a stage further, Prof. Goltz, of Strassburg,
undertook, he says, “these studies of the mutilation of the brain in order
to refute the false theories of the celebrated physiologist Flourens, and I
have attained that end.” In this series 51 dogs had portions of the brain
washed out of the head, which had been pierced in several places, and the
brain made to squirt out. Here is one case: a bull-dog so treated on
November 8th, 1875, became blind November 10th; removal of the eye,
December 11th; more brain rinsed out, January 10th, the dog becomes
idiotic; February 5th, third rinsing of brain, purulent meningitis sets in,
and the dog dies on February I 5th, after some 14 weeks of agonised life.
This is a typical record. One large dorfhund was found, lost and
famishing , its great strength kept it alive under torture from October to
April, when after a second section of the spinal marrow (the most painful
class of Operation), it died of purulent meningitis. They say that it is
difﬁcult to keep these Victims alive for months, because the mutilated
brain becomes excessively sensitive, and the “terror and anguish ” bring
on inﬂammations, “ beautiful cerebral inﬂammations” they call them.*

Munk, of Berlin, procured only 29 apes, as they were so costly. When
mutilated, their sensibility and intelligence were tested by whipping, or by
burning their noses with lighted matches. Often electric shocks are used
to try to wake the animal nearly released by death. This is the very
reverse of anaesthetic treatment.

(ii.) Then there is a second large class, where the operation at the
beginning is done under chloroform, but where the consequences have to

 

* These are extracts from “Ayez Pitié, ” by J. C. Scholl, Lausanne, 1881; quoted by Ouida.
“ New Priesthood,” p. 55.

59...... (at-4‘ .‘zT.~—<. ‘ ~f_v . i" ' '

Kim-u

assess ..

‘ iii
1"”
i5

v ,‘i
Q

' i

l

g

'5

If

‘ 1":

Wi—‘t‘\'<"‘_~ , y ‘ “$3 . ,

 




6

be watched through days of agony. To take a very average case* :—-it was
desired to know Whether calomel increased or decreased the ﬂow of bile.
It had always been supposed to increase it, but one vivisectionist discovered
that it did actually the very reverse. Another followed and disproved this
latter conclusion, so Professor Rutherford instituted a further series of
trials. His dogs fasted 18 hours, then were paralysed by inserting curari
poison into the jugular vein. This only increases their suffering, but
makes cry or movement impossible ; they cannot now breathe, but a tube
is put in the windpipe and artiﬁcial respiration set up; the abdomen is
cut open ; stomach and duodenum pushed aside, the free edge of the
liver is raised, the common bile duct is dissected out, cut, and a glass tube
put, inside, the gall-bladder pressed to ﬁll the tube with bile, and the cystic
duct clamped to prevent it going back. Then all is closed up, but opened
several times to inject the drug through an opening made into the duo-
denum. The dog is kept thus sometimes for eight hours. Even if it had
chloroform instead of curari for the cutting, the anaesthesia would not
be kept up all along in most such cases.

All the large class of experiments with drugs and poisons are of this
kind. Calomel was only one of more than 50 drugs which were tried with
bile. The cases where cholera, fever, or tuberculosis is given to animals
to be watched on their slow way to death, are also of this class.

(iii.) There are next the cases in which various methods of drowning or
hanging have been tried, to see how long animals will live under suffoca-
tion. The Royal Humane Society unluckily asked the vivisectors for data
to help in the resuscitation of drowned men. After a vast experience of
drowning dogs no helpful result appeared. Then there are the series of
baking cats till they die, that the time may be measured—sometimes in
ovens specially built, with the animal’s head outside, which prolongs the
time in an interesting way; also scalding them and boiling them ; and the
experiments on simple starvation till ended by death. It would appear
that these latter are hardly counted as “ painful” by some vivisectors.

j

L!
3
3
3

\
.l
.
I, w
..
.
‘ 3
'$_
,
i, «
$1 <
w .
‘1
g
a
3

(iv.) In those experiments which remain, which depend on the prompt
use of the knife, we have reason to fear that the operation of the chloro-
form is only partial. Anyone who has had to administer it knows how

,, _.am“.£_7\~n
.,~,\‘ M: _ _

carefully it has to be kept up to ensure painlessness, and yet not be fatal.
If the animal can be kept quiet the operator is apt to be satisﬁed. Senti-
ments of this kind were openly avowed before the Royal Commission.

_,

 

V. .‘
y”,—

* Prize Essay, by Abiathar Wall, M.R.C.S., pp. 23 3 ez‘ $69., to which I am indebted for many
points in this paper. ‘

 

 

 




 

“kw

 

 

 

7

The most abominable thing remains: Tennyson’s “ hellish ourali,”
generally called curari, the material with which South American savages
poison their arrows. Under it an intensiﬁed pain has to be endured
without the relief of motion or cry. Claude Bernard, the prime vivisector
of them all, says of death from curari: “This death, which appears to
steal on in so gentle a manner, and so free from pain, is, on the contrary,
attended by the most frightful sufferings that the imagination of man can
conceive.” So much for anasthetics.

We will now mention the general considerations which, in the opinion
of many medical men, so vitiate experiments on the living body as to
make them useless; and if useless, then far worse than useless, in that
they divert attention from the old and safe methods of research, and
waste the careers of many able and distinguished enquirers.

FALLACY I.——A living body is a delicate matter to touch and to argue
from. It cannot be exposed to sudden or prolonged agony, or put in
terror of its life, without the risk of so affecting the organs as to make
the experiment useless. See how a triﬂing mental shock interferes with
our respiration—“ takes our breath away ; ” or how fear or nervousness
dries up the saliva in the mouth, and interferes with the muscles of utter-
ance, and when very severe causes the skin to produce a cold perspiration
and the knees to tremble ; how a little rocking on the sea wave puts the
stomach utterly out of gear, and peremptorily stops digestion ; how fright
at a mad dog has been known to upset the liver and cause jaundice, as
also have ﬁts of anger; how even the expectation of a railway journey
may spoil breakfast; and how sudden bad news may stop a weak heart
for ever. The milk of a mother excited by domestic trouble has been
known to become suddenly poisonous, and the babe to die in convulsions.
Baron Liebig tells of the ﬂesh of a deer causing severe illness and death
after having been killed in a tight and painful rope snare. Now, that I
do not multiply horrors, think of one of those dogs of Rutherford’s, whose
bile was to be observed—starved, poisoned, and paralysed with curari;
its nerves severed in the cruel cutting; its viscera handled; its breath
artiﬁcial; its body all one agony. Surely one’s humble common sense
agrees with the opinion of those doctors who deny that a poor miserable
wreck like this is likely to reveal the normal healthy operation of an
organ. Rutherford, while not apparently seeing this, gives many pre-
cautions about other points, inattention to which will spoil the whole
experiment. We shall not be surprised to hear that the upshot of several
series of these trials was to deny that calomel is a stimulant to bile—a
result so contrary to experience that it is ignored in medical practice,

 




 

8

which it can only have confused. Unfortunately, disCrepancies and con-
tradictions only make ever more trials needed, as when there is an error
in accounts. Indeed, until the met/10d is discarded, that self-propagating
process must go on.

FALLACY II.-—-The other great source of fallacy is to argue from
animals to men. Indeed, it is frequently admitted that after all the
torture, experiments must, to achieve certainty, be made on man.

Our poisons often do not hurt animals. Horses are not hurt by anti-
mony, nor dogs by mercury; goats are unaffected by tobacco, and mice
by hemlock; rabbits can eat belladonna, whilst on the other hand our
innocent domestic parsley is poisonous to a parrot. What use can it be
to try the effect of a drug on a dog whose gastric juice contains six times
as much pepsin, and nearly twice as much free hydrochloric acid, as that
of man P Experiments on the bites of poisonous snakes have been tried
on animals, with no useful result. Nor is it any wonder. The tsetse ﬂy,
Livingstone says, causes certain death to ox, horse, or dog, but is power-
less against the mule, the ass, and the goat, as it is against man and the
game. What can be the subtle difference between ox and buffalo,
between horse and zebra, which can explain the phenomenon? Mouse
typhus, imported from Europe to destroy mice in Java, turned out to be
fatal to some species but harmless to others.

Dr. Andrew Clark has said in the Brz'z‘er/z Medical yourmzl : “ By the
assumption, that in like conditions the result would be the same in man
as in the lower animals, ﬂagrant errors are committed. Had these prin-
ciples (of ordinary clinical experience) exerted their inﬂuence in recent
debates we should not have had a seton in the neck of a man taken as a
parallel to a seton in the neck of a guinea pig.”

We have reason to fear that to get rid of this source of error vivisection
will, 'when it shall dare, claim (as it logically should) human victims too
———the criminal, the lunatic, the drunkard, even the cripple and the
pauper. Already, in foreign hospitals, sad facts have come to light,
showing how the last hours of poor patients, whose recovery was hopeless,
have been spent in excruciating tortures for the sake of the experiment.
Here, in Manchester, curari has been administered to two children;
abroad, two children, from six to eight years old, were inoculated with
matter from a leprous tumour; and an abominable Dr. Lund, of Samso,
in Denmark, tells shamelessly how, to his own son, a healthy, well-made
baby boy, he gave milk from cows in consumption for 2%— years, and suc-
ceeded in planting the disease; scrofulous conjunctivitis began ‘to

 

 

$7;

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

9

appear by the time the child was eight months old. These instances
might be multiplied, but that is enough.*

RESULTS.~——We will now try to brieﬂy discuss the results to the good
claimed for vivisection. The standard article up to its date on the subject
appeared in the Brz'z‘z's/z Medical yourmzl, by Dr. McKendrick, just
before the Royal Commission sat. It names 22 discoveries, which may
be analysed as follows z—j‘

Four of them refer to the discovery of sensory and motor nerves by Sir
Charles Bell. But hear Bell himself :—-——“ My results have'been considered
as in favour of experimenting on living animals. They are, on the
contrary, deductions from anatomy. Experiments have never been the
means of discovery. The opening of living animals has done more to
perpetuate error than to enforce the just views taken from anatomy and
the natural motions.”

Five more deal with the functions of the cerebellum and the grey matter
of the brain, with the 8th pair of nerves and the sympathetic nerves.
After the library of literature on localisation of function in the brain, the
results are shifting and contradictory in the extreme.

As a layman it would be futile for me to try to judge of the net result of
the studies on the brain by aid of which tumours are now extracted. I
fall back therefore on medical authority. Dr. Carpenter says :———“ On the
functions of the different parts of the encephalon, I do not believe that
experiment can give trustworthy results, since violence to one part cannot
be put in practice without functional disturbance of the rest.”

Bowman, in his physiology, remarks that “vivisections upon so complex
an organ as the brain are ill calculated to lead to useful or satisfactory
results.” Of course, if you sear out part of the brain with a red hot iron,
it is absurd to expect that you can argue as if the rest were unaffected.
We shall not be surprised to learn that the deaths after removal of tumour
from cerebrum and cerebellum respectively amount to 51 and 77 per cent.
I believe these results are the strongest thing our opponents have to rely
upon.

Yet localisations, when apparently based on the completest evidence,
have frequently failed. The observable effect of a tumour existing on a
certain motor track inside the brain may, under certain circumstances, be
the same as if it were on the surface, at the end of the track. Yet only if
it happen to be at the end is excision possible. It is appalling to think
that only one-third of those operated on for tumour have recovered, and

 

* Experiments on Hospital Patients, by Mark Thornhill.
i See the valuable prize essay by James Macaulay, A.M., M.D., F.R.C.S.E., p. 34, at seq.

. A.
A"; .133"- ‘57 - .

«. Q'F-a-Ir- $9 W “‘71.;

.93? £—

1%?

l

 




 

IO

these almost always suffer for life from a paralysis of part of the cortex.
In Nature, February 15th, 1894, we ﬁnd that Munk, of Berlin, has upset
the hitherto valued conclusions of Ferrier, Horsley, and others.

Next comes Dr. Marshall Hall’s discovery of reﬂex action, or action
independent of the brain. Let us compare two ways of getting at a fact
like this :-—-—M. Bouillard burned out a dog’s cerebrum, but found he still
shrank under cold water and responded to a pinch on his foot; Sir George
Burrows touched with a feather the paralysed foot of a hospital patient,
and his leg drew up unconsciously, though he could not draw it up if he
tried. What need of vivisecting dogs? .

Harvey’s discovery of the circulation of the blood stands next. It has
been reiterated to weariness that such part as is due to him of the great
discovery of that age was due to noticing the valves in the veins. Harvey
sought to discover the circulation by vivisection, but was led thereby into
bewilderment. “ My mind was therefore greatly unsettled,” he says,
“ nor did I know what I should myself conclude nor what believe from
others; ” he then returned to his anatomy, and from it deduced his con-
clusions.

Conﬁrmations of the theory were sought and found by experiments on
animals, but the best conﬁrmation ever obtained was on the body of a just
executed criminal, in whom the path of the blood from the right to the
left of the heart, by way of the lungs, was directly noted.

Other work mentioned on the circulation has led to results too incon-
sistent to be of use, should use ever be found for them.

Then are counted ﬁve discoveries, which need only be named to be
laughed down, viz., discovery that atmospheric air is necessary to the
maintenance of life—that by continued breathing it becomes vitiated—-—-
that it is also diminished in volume by breathing—and discovery of the
Well-known co-operating respiration of animals and plants. We don’t
need to choke dogs in carbonic acid for all this. The Black Hole of
Calcutta will do.

The physiology of the lacteals and the digestion comes next. This
might have been done at the abattoirs and by the usual anatomical
microscopic studies. The action of light on the retina, and facts in
electro-physiology (though doubtless our knowledge is aided by vivisec-
tion) are in no way dependent upon it for elucidation, nor is the sugar-
producing property of the liver, where the only results of vivisection are
to show what was practically certain before, but in other respects to cloud

 

 




 

 

 

II

the issue. Bernard concludes that the healthy liver forms sugar; Pavy
that it never does. We have now traversed this wearisome list.

To come to more recent matters :——The great hope that the tubercle
bacillus was conquered, which is connected with the name of Koch, has
turned out a costly disappointment. It has been said to be useful in
lupus, a tubercular affection of the skin, even when admitted to be useless
or even dangerous in lung disease, but Dr. Jonathan Hutchinson says (in
the British Medical ~9‘0urnal)~—-that if the cases are followed up, he
believes that there is no evidence for its success even in cases of lupus.
A new preparation is being tried. The Edinéurg/z Medical f70urnal for
1891 gives cases where the Koch treatment has changed the comparatively
harmless lupus on the skin into acute pulmonary consumption.

The other great popular discovery, the hydrophobia inoculation of
Pasteur, is now largely discredited. 259 deaths have so far resulted in
spite of, and sometimes, it would appear, in consequence of, his inoculation.
Whilst his cure has been in operation the hydrophobia mortality has
greatly increased, both in England and in France.

The cure of myxoedema by transplanting the thyroid gland of a sheep
to the human subject is one of the latest vivisection achievements. The
history of the matter is that two Swiss doctors, who had frequently to
operate for goitre, noticed that patients from whom they had extracted
the thyroid gland, or in Whom it was atrophied, often had myxoedema.
They, therefore, connected the two facts. All the vivisectors did was to
conﬁrm this by showing that the same occurred in animals. But the
treatment above mentioned, which they deduced, and for which they
should have credit, was found so unsatisfactory that it has been given up,
and a preparation of the gland is now administered internally.

My friendly vivisector critic before alluded to, while admitting that
hitherto there is no very deﬁnite gain to point to in the healing art due to
vivisection, still regards the future with hope. It is the old situation as it
was at the end of the career of the famous Claude Bernard :—“ Our hands
are empty of results, but our mouths are full of promises.”

So that it is still open to us to say that tile metlwd, tlzougli not
entirely barren of knowledge, is li/eely only to 0e a temporaryﬁzslzion,
and is too uncertain and delusive to warrant anyt/iing more in
Me future than a recurrence 0f the frequent disappointments 0f
the past.

 




 

IZ

II.—-—THE MORAL QUESTION.

We now turn with a feeling of relief to the moral aspect of the matter,
in which it is no longer needful to speak at second hand, and merely
quote authorities. Yet, as a preliminary question, we may usefully ask,
who, on the moral aspect of the matter,.possess the most authority?

It is no slur upon the honour and the devotion of the medical profession
to say that I do not feel that to them can we give more weight as ﬁnal
judges than to other men of equal general enlightenment. They have a
professional morality of their own, such as has arisen in many other
callings, as that of the lawyer or the plumber. They are habitually
permitted, under the stress of a hard necessity, to go behind the privacies
and reticencies of civilised life—they are ever looking at men as so many
material bodies to be mended; their ﬁnger is on the pulse, their ear to
the lung. We are glad to hear them as counsel and witnesses credible
and honourable, but not as judge and jury in this matter of ethics.

Who, then, are the men to whom we should naturally look for guidance?
Undoubtedly, to men of acknowledged inspiration, of far-seeing genius,
and of known moral elevation ; those men who, from their mountain-tops,
see the light dawn ﬁrst on a new moral question. These men are, it
happens, the very pillars of our movement. Level-headed men of genius
like Carlyle and Dr. Johnson are on our side. Browning was one of us ;
no supporter of vivisection could be, he said, among the number of his
friends. Tennyson has written “ The Children’s Hospital” to plead our
cause; Ruskin resigned his professorship at Oxford on the vote for new
vivisection laboratories; Rendel Harris did the same at Baltimore.
Never was a cause so identiﬁed with names of honour in spiritual things.
The more enlightened of the clergy of all denominations—such as
Cardinal Manning, Bishop Westcott, Mr. VVicksteed, Canon Wilberforce,
and our own Bishop of Manchester, with his remarkable common sense
and fearlessness of conviction—are on our side. And, above all—more
than to the clergy or the poets,——we look earnestly, and not without
response, to the Society of Friends to see whether its reliance upon the
Light that shines upon the individual conscience will yet, as in the slavery
days, help the world to learn a fresh lesson in loving-kindness. They
quickly saw how wrong it was to deprive an African labourer of his
personal liberty, and interfere with his family relations. Is it less than
this to expose to unimaginable pain, through days and weeks, a sensitive,
honourable, and amiable dog P

 

 




 

 

13

There is a thought which cannot but have occurred to us, and which has
occurred, widely amongst our Opponents, that this particular form of
cruelty is—even if rather worse—only one of the forms of cruelty suffered
by animals at the hands of man. To be consistent, we are told, we ought
not to eat the ﬂesh of slaughtered animals. One feels almost at once
that there is a difference between the work of the butcher and that of the
physiologist, and Mr. Wicksteed has put the dimly-felt difference into a
clearly-explained form. He points out that, as carnivorous animals by
ancestry, we still partake of the brute-nature in the matter of our eating.
It is one, doubtless regrettable, form of that world-wide hardness we ever
ﬁnd in what we call nature. We do it as a whole with no thought of
harm. But it is a different thing to deliberately admit a conscious and
novel cruelty into the most advanced part of us—into the very processes
of our intellectual life. Besides being animals, with animal needs, we are
men with human souls. Our upward reaching, our ever-reﬁning mind, is
not to recur to those coarse ways, which are our heritage from a more
roughhewn time.

We regret the slaughter of animals—comparatively brief and painless
as it may be made, as we regret competition, and coal strikes; and
we do not elevate these hard things into the part of our life which is
forward and upward looking, we do not bring guns to our Church Meetings,
nor decide by dynamite on rival theories at the British Association. We
prefer to obtain our wives otherwise than by capture, and our beards are no
longer needed to keep from our throats the teeth of our rivals in love. Nor

shall a cruelty worse than that of a savage be the basis of our growing
knowledge.

I

This is, indeed, only one more of those hard questions which beset us
when pondering on the origin of evil. We cannot perhaps explain why
nature is so regardless of pain ; at any rate it would demand more than a
passing sentence to touch on it at all, but we do easily see this, that God,
who made nature, has set over against her the heart of man, which He
also made—to the non-moral we supply the moral, and both are God’s.
If we are as cruel as nature, we simply destroy the balance of creation and
count ourselves as nothing in the scheme of things.

N ow, having done with authorities and side issues, what is for ourselves
the question to be decided P

A German professor, mocking at the way his English students shrank
from the cruelties of his laboratory, said he supposed they thought that
God would do the same to them as they did to the animals. This is a
travesty of religious faith, but he touched the bottom so far as he implied

 




 

14

that it is the existence of the spiritual part in man and the universe that

makes us cry out against these Violations of its unseen laws by those who

look only to What is material.

. Now, every one of these acts of cruelty is an event in the spiritual world,
full of signiﬁcance and sure in penalty—a catastrophe and a degradation.
There lies round the operator’s table—~as bones round a lion’s den, or as
the ruins of a bombarded town—a widespread destruction of souls; the
corrupted spirit of the tyrant operator, corrupted by his cowardly treachery,
and the outraged spirits of the trustful sufferers. A deadened sensibility
of soul is as real a lameness as an atrophied limb ; the breaking up of the
friendly unspoken compact in which man lives with his dog is as real a
catastrophe as a volcanic eruption ; the harmonious order of nature is
broken; a crime has been committed that detonates through the spiritual
environment like a thunderclap. “ Dogs,” said a vivisector, “ are so
much better to experiment upon than other animals—a few words and pats
quiet them, and they trust you.” Trusz‘ you ./ What is that? It is the
poor creature’s appeal out of its extremity to that social contract he has
lived under; he cannot think that you are—that men are—the incarnate
devils they seem to be. This thing which goes on in the dog’s mind is a
violence to what is precious in God’s sight, a crime against love and faith.

Much turns on the relative weight we give to material and to spiritual
considerations. For how much knowledge of arteries will we corrupt a
human soul? How does the exchange stand between a good breathing
tube and a kind heart? There is in man a terrible capacity for growing
callous to others’ pain, so that there are great losses possible on that side
of the account.

If the spirits of men are, as we believe they are, whether described
as the highest product of creative evolution, or as the breath of God
imparted -to his creatures, the crown of creation, and its most precious
thing, I cannot conceive what accuracy of knowledge of the garment of
ﬂesh is to compensate for a deep wound on the living soul beneath.
“ Though I understand all mysteries and all knowledge, but have not love,
I am nothing.”

Now sympathy is the gold and jewels of our spiritual heritage. Sympathy
is the fountain of all morality, the secret potency of all love, the corrector
of the hardness of competitive strife, its successor and ever increasingly
its supplanter. Our evolutionist teachers are never weary of pointing out
how the long dark ages of strife are leading in humanity to a godlike

tenderness, our one hope.

 




 

 

I5

“ There is none other Name given under heaven, among men, whereby
we can be saved, but the Name of Jesus,” which means, throughout the
New Testament, the Nature and Power of Jesus; and the Nature and
Power of Jesus is to us manifested in His Sympathy. It is not possible
for a man to live every day, week in and week out, as these physiologists
with their assistants and servants do, in the midst of suffering which they
cause and observe, without blunting that sensibility which is our most
precious endowment. That is What habit always does for us. A medical
man is subject to the hardening inﬂuence of his daily experience of
suffering, modiﬁed by the softening nature of his own efforts to alleviate
it; but these men inﬂict the pain themselves, chieﬂy to obtain knowledge,
and only sometimes and indirectly to heal. We are in danger of
dehumanising the young members of that noble profession, in whose
hands our dearest lives are at times placed. Old Dr. Samuel Johnson
said: “He buys knowledge dear at the expense of his own humanity.
It is time that a universal resentment should arise against these horrid
operations, which tend to harden the heart, and make the physician more
dreadful than the gout.” We, too, the conscious and consenting public,
are not without an inner penalty for our passive consent.

Jesus said: “ Love one another, as I have loved you.” How did Jesus
love us? As an equal? Nay, but as a superior. He humbled himself
to be one of us, that the inferior creatures might be saved. The reader
will see my rough, my very rough, parallel. We are in the position of
gods to the lower animals, As Jesus saved our spirits, we must save
their bodies, unless we are a fraud when we say we are His. At present,
instead of being cruciﬁed with Christ, we do accurately crucify the
animals, in large numbers, in the troughs of torture, for the purpose of
discovering how much more carbonic acid is given off under varying
degrees of agony.

To those who, in addition to being Christians, are, like Miss Cobbe
herself, also evolutionists, I can appeal in the name of our common origin
and ancestry. These tormented humble friends of ours are of the same
ﬂesh and blood with ourselves. They are sufficiently different, so I have
argued, not to be safe as physical examples—they are suﬂiciently allied
to be comprehended within the bounds of our charity. The vivisector
decides just the other way. Whilst anxious to acknowledge their physical
kinship, he denies their claim to love.

And "those whose studies have not led them on the lines of evolution
can still feel the force of the Revelation that not a sparrow falleth to the
ground uncared for—and can appreciate the beauty of that daring ideal

 




 

16

of the universal harmony when the leopard shall lie down with the kid.
However far off that may be, a creature that can obey and love as a dog
can—~a creature capable of a dog’s endless devotion—gifted with his
intellectual discernment—loving praisepand eager for approval—~wearing
himself out in our shepherd service, and risking his life in our courageous
defence ; such a creature claims by a right inherent in those very qualities
a just response to his trust and veneration; and if nature’s harmony is
violated I hear the spiritual earth crack, and ﬂames come forth.

Nearly every sin of our erring race is due to the exaggerated predomi-
nance of some organ or appetite which is good in itself, but has obtained
the mastery over the will and cannot keep its place. As appetite rules
the drunkard, so the lust of knowing and ﬁnding out has become a snare
to the vivisector. I too am a servant in the courts of knowledge. In an
atmosphere of science it is my lot to live and think always. It is so much
a part of myself that I cannot be false to its leadings.

Who loves not knowledge? Who shall rail
Against her beauty? Let her mix

With men and prosper. Who shall ﬁx
Her pillars? Let her work prevail.

But on her forehead sits a ﬁre :—
She sets her forward countenance
And leaps into the future chance,

Submitting all things to desire.

These prophetic words about knowledge “ready to burst all bonds in
her onward race for power” tell accurately how desire has led some
physiologists to be impatient of the covering of concealing skin and to
rend it open like an ignorant and futile child.

If I were to be convinced that Vivisection is right, it would in my mind
constitute a difﬁculty in the way of harmonising the teaching of Jesus
with other facts ; Christ and this torture are as far apart as is the east
from the west. I can fancy I see a ﬁgure wandering among the
moaning dogs tied in their troughs in the deserted laboratory, in the
darkness of the long hours of night, the ﬁgure of the sorrowing Christ.
“ In all afﬂiction He was afﬂicted,” and may we add the hope that “ the
Angel of His presence saved them,” even them. The “Angel of His

presence” must make himself felt, friends, through us. ~ Perhaps it is
the only way.
Are we devils ? Are we men ?

Sweet St. Francis of Assisi, would that he were here again,

He that in his Catholic wholeness used to call the very ﬂowers

Sisters, brothers,——and the beasts,-—whose pains are hardly less than ours.

 




 

‘
- K
‘ \
- ‘ ‘
\
\
t
\
. \ x
\
\
x
\ .
. o
/
/
r
1
r
’ .
1
‘ /
I .
/
‘

 

 




 




