 

 

LOCAL COUNCILS AND
CRUEL SPORTS

By H. G. CHANCELLOR

Legislation is the record, the register, of the moral sense of
the community ; it follows, not precedes, the development of
that moral sense, but nevertheless in its turn reacts on it, strengthens
it, and secures it against the danger of retrocession. It is well
that society should proclaim, formally and decisively, its abhorrence
of certain practices. '

HENRY S. SALT: Animals’ Rights (1922).

HIS Association exists for an object which, though

limited, is important. It is to abate the suffering in

the world by eliminating cruelty from sport and purg—

ing amusement from the stain of bloodshed. Our
methods and policy are not sensational nor violent. We seek
by education to inform public opinion of the existence, the
extent, and the nature of the suffering inﬂicted on wild
animals for the pleasure of sportsmen, and especially to reach
the hearts and consciences of children before use and fashion
have hardened the one and seared the other.

In sport, as in so much else, “ evil is wrought by want 00f
thought as well as want of heart.” Blood-sports pers1st
because the savagery that survives in our civilisation prevents
their cruelty and cowardice from reaching the consciousness
of sportsmen. Judging from the past hundred years and from
experience gained already during our short ex1stence as a
Society, humaneness is widening its inﬂuence and hastening
the time when slaughter and pleasure will be divorced, and
killing for fun, at least in the barbarous forms of hunting
and coursing, will come to be a thing “not done”.

At present it is far otherwise. Fox-hunting. is an aristo-
cratic pursuit. Joining a hunt is a means of entry into Seeiety.
Members are being recruited from the ranks of those who
acquire riches. Large sums are subscribed to perpetuate
fashionable sport and to resist and defeat all efforts made to
humanise it by men and women whose only instruments are
education and good-Will.

 




 

 

The National Trust and Hunting

In recent years this Society has appealed without result
to the National Trust to stop hunting over properties they
hold under the National Trust Act (1907), which sets out one
of its objects as being “ the preservation (so far as practicable)
of . . . animal and plant life.” The Trust has also a bye-law,
displayed on its estates, including Ashridge, one of the largest,
forbidding any unauthorised person to “ catch or kill any bird
or other animal ” or to “ shoot or chase or drive game or other
animals.” But the Committee authorise some persons to
indulge in some of these very practices, namely, fox-hunting,
and have repeatedly refused to withdraw their authority,
thus encouraging favoured private persons to take their
pleasure in destroying animal life on public property dedicated
to its preservation and acquired for the public with that object
among others.

In refreshing contrast is the policy of the Corporation of
London in regard to Epping Forest, as deﬁned in the letter
quoted on page 5.

We also made an appeal to the governing body of Eton
College to cease providing means for their schoolboys to
ﬁnd pleasure in chasing and breaking-up hares. On the ground
of its cruelty the great Dr. Arnold stopped. hare-hunting at
Rugby School nearly a century ago. To-day Eton College
retains a hare-hunt with beagles and refuses to give them up,
thus sharing with Ampleforth College the bad pre-eminence
of being one of the last public schools in Great Britain that
are a hundred years behind the times in this respect.

The Society’s Letter to Councils

In other directions we have met with more encouragement.
Local authorities are democratically elected. They are far
more representative of public opinion than either of the two
bodies named. Early this year the following letter was
addressed to a number of local authorities :

THE NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS

4, Tavistcck Square, London, W.C.l.

To the Clerk. 18th January, 1936.
Sir,

We have been requested to ask you to bring to the notice of

your Council the widespread practices of .hunting, coursing,

and other forms of blood-sport over lands in public ownership.

Besides much inevitable damage done to public property for
the pleasure of a tiny section of the community, there is a




3

great and growing volume of public opinion against the cruelty
involved in the pursuit, worry, and slaughter of wild animals
for sport.

This Society therefore respectfully urges that these practices
be prohibited on lands under the control of your Council, notice
boards to that effect being exhibited in suitable positions ;
and that any necessary reduction of wild life be carried out under
the strict control of the Council’s own ofﬁcers and employees.

Yours faithfully,
H. G. CHANCELLOR.
(Chairman)

BERTRAM LLOYD,
(H on. Secretary.)

With this letter was enclosed our leaﬂet No. 27, The End
of a Fox-hunt. Further copies of this were supplied by request
in several cases for distribution to all members of the Council
or of the Committee to which the matter was referred. The
effect has been both illuminating and encouraging. Up to date
(June, 1936), replies have come in from 118 County, City
Borough, and Urban District Councils. These and reports in
local newspapers that have reached us shew that the subject of
blood-sports on land in public ownership has excited keen
interest, lively debate, and reached the public conscience
through the Press to an extent far greater than would be
possible by costly and widespread agitation through public
meetings. Only where some hunting scandal has shocked
the neighbourhood can more than a handful be got into
public halls to hear our message. Not unnaturally, such
gatherings are not “ news ” and do not get reported, except
when, as at Banbury, the hunting fraternity turn up to
make a noise and prevent our speakers being heard.

Nairn Town Council Opposes Cruel Sport

But meetings of Local Authorities are news which every
local paper must report or lose its reputation as a newspaper.
In illustration of the value of such publicity in educating
public opinion, and the need of some responsible
public representatives for such education, we subjoin one
report. Fancy a public man saying “ there is no cruelty in
hunting with beagles ” and “ beagles never catch a hare ” !

Killing of Otter Condemned

“ A letter from the National Society for the Abolition of
Cruel Sports, referring to hunting, etc., over public places,
received the support of the Council.

“ Provost Mackay said he would support the letter ii it
was for nothing else than to avoid a repetition of the most cruel
business that happened on their river banks only the other day——
the killing of an otter.

 




 

4

“ ‘ I understand from the local Press,’ he said, ‘ that it was
smoked out, hunted by dogs and chased with sticks, and
ultimately killed. To eliminate such cruelty I would support
this letter. I was always taught in my young days when I was
out for sport to give my opponent a sporting chance. In this
case the victim got no chance.’

“ Bailie Wilson, supporting the Provost, said it was a most
unsatisfactory state of affairs that this cruelty should be carried
out in Nairn. Bailie Rhind concurred.

“ Councillor Morganti said that the letter referred to hunting
and he did not think there was any cruelty attached to hare
coursing. ‘ There is no cruelty in hunting with beagles,’ he said.

“ Councillor Knowles—J thoroughly disagree with Councillor
Morganti. Hare-hunting is one of the cruellest sports going.

“ Councillor Morganti—«It is not a cruel sport. Anyone who
knows anything about it knows that the beagles never catch

a hare.
“ Councillor Murdoch agreed from personal observation that

it was a cruel sport.
“ It was agreed to support the letter.”———The Nairnskire
Telegraph (11/2/1936).

This resolution of the council evoked a protest from our
opponents. In its issue of March 10th the same paper reports :

“ The Council were asked to reconsider their recent decision

to support the National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports

in a letter read from the Secretary of the British Field Sports
Society, London, but it was allowed to lie on the table.”

The limits of this pamphlet prevent more than a few extracts
from replies showing their general trend. The most striking
fact emerging from this effort is that, of all the replies received,
only two or three are frankly hostile. The Town Clerk of
Axminster wrote on March 9th: “I laid your letter of 16th
January last before the Council, who are strong in their
opposition against you. This district is in favour of fox-
hunting.”

For a variety of reasons, some Councils have taken, indeed
could take, “no action.” Reasons given are, e.g.: “ Noland over
which any kind of sporting to which you refer takes place ”
(Alfreton) ; “ completely built up ” (Penge) ; “ do not appear
to be affected ” (Watford) ; “ the forms of sport referred to
are unknown in this neighbourhood ” (Buckie).

Councils which Prohibit Blood -Sports

Coming now to the last series of replies, it is gratifying to
learn of authorities which either have already prohibited
blood-sports on their land or who, in response to our letter,

 

 




 

 

5

have resolved to do so. Of the former there are seventeen,
of the latter seven. The most important of those who had
already dealt with the matter are London and Glasgow,
whose letters follow :

THE CORPORATION OF LONDON,
Guildhall, London, E.C.2.
To the Hon. Secretary 3rd April, 1936.
The National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports.
Dear Sir,

I am in receipt of your letter dated the 31st ultimo, and in
reply have to inform you that hunting or shooting for sport is
not permitted in Epping Forest.

Yours faithfully,
ALFRED T. ROACH.
(For the Town Clerk.)

THE CORPORATION OF GLASGOW,
City Chambers, 50, John Street, Glasgow, C.l.
22nd January, 1936.
Gentlemen,
I have to thank you for your letter of 18th inst.
We do not permit fox-hunting on our grounds. Our game
keepers at Loch Katrine have instructions to use their discretion

in killng any foxes Which might be causing trouble by attacking
sheep, etc. —

We should certainly object to the torture of any animal
such as described in your pamphlet.

Yours truly,

J. COCHRAN E.
(Engineer and Manager.)

(Edinburgh is more backward. On June 7th, 1935, her
City Council granted permission to hunt foxes on the Talla
Estate, containing her most important reservoir.)

The other ﬁfteen are Barry, Bingley, Broadstairs, Buckie,
Crayford, Crewe, Earby, Exmouth, Farnham, Gravesend,
Mother‘well, Orpington, Rosehearty, Sevenoaks, and Surrey,
all of whom say in set terms that they “ do not allow ” or
“ do not. permit” or “ have prohibited,” and in most cases
add an expression of sympathy with our work. For instance,
the Clerk of the ,Earby U.D.C. writes : “My Council do not
allow hunting or coursing over the 350 acres of land in their
possession, and from the opinions expressed when your letter
Was considered, it does not appear likely that they ever will.”

 




 

Other Replies

The following letters contain points of interest :

Aberystwyth “ is not the owner of any lands over which hunting,
coursing, and other forms of blood-sport are carried on.”

Bedworth “ hold no lands on which blood-sports are taking
place.”

Bromley. “ Lands in public ownership are mainly of the enclosed
playing-ﬁeld type.”

Burton Latimer. “ The likelihood of any hunting over the
Council’s land was so very small that no action was taken.”

Cumberland County Council “ has no lands in public ownership.”

Dorking. “ Coursing and other forms of blood-sport do not
take place over land over which my Council has full control.”

Llandudno. “ The practices referred to in your letter do not
obtain on lands under the control of the Council.”

Surrey. “ The practice to which you refer is not permitted on
any lands in the ownership of this (County) Council.”

Sevenoaks “ has prohibited the practice to which you draw
attention in your letter on land in the ownership of the
Council, and the particular attention of the West Kent
Hunt has been drawn to such prohibition, which is very
strictly observed by the hunt.”

These cover most of the reasons given, but Lymington
had another, “ the members of my Council consider the subject
matter of a very controversial nature and therefore decided
to take no action.”

In every case, even where our letter was merely “ received,”
or ordered to “lie on the table,” we desire to acknowledge
the perfect courtesy with which the intimation was conveyed.
In a number of such cases they went out of their way to
express sympathy with our aims. Here are a few examples :
“Although they are not owning any land applicable, they
are in hearty sympathy with your letter ” (Cwmbran);
“ I am to state that your Society has the Council’s entire
suppor ” (Alfreton); “ The Council have recorded their
support of the objects of your Society ” (Stretford) ; “ I am
sure that in any case my Council would prohibit such
practices ” (Leatherhead).

Of all the authorities that took no action the most
important is the Middlesex County Council. They referred
our letter to the Middlesex- Agricultural Committee, whose
clerk wrote : “ I was directed to inform you that the Com-‘
mittee regrets that it is unable to see its way to take any
action on the lines suggested by your Society. It will of course

 

 




 

 

 

7

be appreciated that considerable areas in this county are
almost completely urbanised, and that consequently little or
no hunting, coursing, etc., takes place.”

Influence of the Society’s Letter

Apart from the discovery of widespread condemnation
of blood-sports, the most gratifying feature of this effort of
ours is its immediate outcome in action deﬁnitely taken in
seven new areas after consideration and discussion of our
proposals by representative bodies.

Halesowen “ decided at their meeting on Wednesday
(March 4th) that hunting, coursing, and other forms of blood-
sport should be prohibited on lands under the control of the
Council.” Hemsworth is “ prepared to comply with the
request contained in your letter.” Durham “ supports the
contents.” Willesden “ received and adopted ”' our letter.
At Rayleigh “ a resolution was adopted by the Council
prohibiting hunting on any ground owned by them.” Wrexham
“ will see that no cruelty of the kind referred to . . . will
occur on land owned by them.” At Crewe “ a resolution was
passed that the Council agree to the request.”

Thus we may rejoice in a limitation of the area over
which hunting is allowed, and a reduction of the suffering
to which hunted animals are subjected. Of course, the above
deals with only a small cross-section of opinion, but represents
areas most diverse in location and in character. It encourages
the" conviction that, at no distant date, humane thought will
have progressed enough to enable us to carry through the
suggestion made by a clerk to one of the Northumberland
Urban District Councils in one of the most interesting of all
the replies that have reached us thus far. He writes : “ It
would seem to me that a useful purpose might be served if
a Bill could be passed through Parliament in like manner to
the Slaughter of Animals Act, whereby local authorities
throughout the country could express their opinion upon
the subject of fox-hunting and other similar blood-sports
and could bring in local option to prevent them throughout
their areas. I am of opinion that, except for certain of the
rural council areas, the country might be surprised at the
number of local authorities who would pass resolutions
abolishing blood-sports within their area, in the same way
that the country was surprised at how fully the Slaughter
of Animals Act was adopted.”

 




 

Publications
of the

National Society for the Abolition
of Cruel Sports

-__-_—_..__.

THE COST OF A FOX. By Charles Oldham, F.L.S. Id.
.WHO ARE THE KILL-JOYS? By Henry S. Salt. Id.
DRAG HUNTING. By Basil Tozer. . 5d. post free.

THE BEASTS THAT PERISH. A West-Country Sketch
by A. L. Salmon. Third Edition. 2d. post free.

GENTLEMEN VERSUS FOX. By A. P. Herbert. Id.

WHAT SHALL IT PROFIT? The Economics of Hunting.
By H. G. Chancellor. 2d.

IN ENGLAND—NOW. (Stag-hunting.) Id.

IN AT THE DEATH : Freeman on Cruelty in Sport. Id.

ETON COLLEGE HARE-HUNT: A Protest and a
Memorial. Gratis.

THE HUNTING OF THE STAG. By Edith Ward. 3d.
HARE AND HOUNDS. By Allan Monkhouse. Id.
THE CASE AGAINST COURSING. By T.E.B.Clarke. Id.
OT T ER-HUNTING. By John Tunnard. Id.

DIGGING—OUT AND EARTH-STOPPING. By Lady
Rolleston. 2d.

THE END OF A FOX-HUNT. Eye Witnesses’ Account.
By the Students of Paton College. Gratis.

‘ Junior Series ’ Leaflets :

(1) What do Young People think about hunting
Animals ?
(2) Hunting the Fox to Death.

(3) The Gentle Deer and the Gentle Men.
(4) The Coursing Of Hares and Rabbits.
(5) Is Otter-hunting Fair Sport?

(6) The Cruelty of Shooting.

Price Id. web or 25 copierﬁyr IJ‘.

 

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE A'BOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS

4 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.l
Information from the Secretary

 

 

 

Publication No. 30 Price Id.

Printed by Ike Wearda/e Pram, Ltd, 20, Gordon Square, London, W.C.I
and Newnbam Street, Buford

 




