 

 

 

 

Dr. J. .3. GARTH WELKINSGN,

{Reprim‘ of the dosing cfzapz‘er of a Pamphlez‘ enz‘iz‘fea’
”The Care, Arrest, and Isolaz‘fon of Smallpox,” pablfsﬁed
by Dr. W’z’f/‘éinson in 1864,.)

Price 113.; Post Free, 1%9.

REPUBLISHED BY
THE PEOPLE'S LEAGUE OF MEDICAL FREEDOM»
104, BISPHAM ROAD, SOUTHPORT,

. AND PRINTED AT THE “V'ISITER” WORKS, SOUTIIPORT.

 

 

 

 

 




 

JAMES JGI‘IN GARTH VVILKINSG‘N.

BORN 3R1) lows, 1812. Dino Ocronsn, I899.

 

 

Dr. Wilkinson was a man who played, nay, rather shall
we say strenuously lived, many parts with distinction. He
was. held in high regard in religir us and literary circles for
his labours as translator, from the Latin, of the works of
Swedenborg, and his keen insight as an expositor of the
spiritual gospel of that great nystic. Emerson described
him as “a philosophic critic, with a co-equal vigour of
understanding and imagination c<;>mparable only to Lord
Bacon’s”; and “ with a l‘l’lClOl‘lt‘. like the armorry of the
invincible knights of old.”

He was trained to orthodox medicine, but his original
mind refused to be trammelled by the “ isms ” of the regulars
of his day. He had a “horror of promiscuous drugging,”
and soon after the introduction of homceopathy into England
he became one of its most successful and famous prac-
titioners. Later in life- he became friendly with Dr. John
Shelton, senr., his great herbalist: contemporary. Vxlriting
to another friend in 1852, he said ,#

Homoeopathy has led me to the study of the old Herbals of various
countries, and I see in them an unlimited extension of the Homoeopathic
medicine.

He was a fearless opponent of vaccination, Vivisection,
and the Contagious Diseases Acts, and a staunch upholder
of Medical Freedom. “Perhaps,” says Dr. Clement
Wilkinson in a Memoir of his uncle recently published,
“‘ there was never a practitioner of medicine who was less a
member of the profession at heart. Almost from the ﬁrst he
would have dischartered that profession and have thrown
the treatment of the sick open to all who chose to engage in
it, holding them equally responsible whether qualiﬁed or not.
Degrees and diplomas would have conveyed no privilege, had
Wilkinson been allowed his way.”

It is interesting to note that when Dr. Garth Wilkinson
ﬁrst began to practise medicine he was not opposed to
accination. A few years later, when some friends tried to
raise doubts in his mind in regard to it, he said :———“ Vacci-
nation is an inﬁnitesimal affair; its reform will come in with
greater reforms.” Later still he wrote :——— A

After—studies extending over eighteen years have convinced me that
I was wrong in my estimate of the smallness of the Vaccination question
compared with other Evils. As forced upon every British Cradle, I see
It as a Monster, instead of a Poisonous Midge; a Devourer of Nations.
As a Destroyer of the Honesty and Humanity of Medicine, which is
through it a deeply-degraded 'Profession. As. a Tyrant which is the
Parent of a brood of Tyrants, and through Pasteur and his likea
Universal Pollution Master. As a Ghoul which sits upon Parliament,
and enforces Contamination by- Law, and prepares the way for endless
Violations of personal liberty and sound sense at the bidding of cruel
experts. Not denying other forms of Social \Vickedness, I now, after
careful study, regard Vaccination as one of the greatest and deepest

forms, abolishing the last hope and resort of races, the new-born
soundness of the Human Body.

 




Ag? 'z‘fglxlrv. y

 

3‘1:

- rewr- f"f-.' wr‘v-a‘: ‘:2“!’1'—~.’r g5?"

 

)

f! .i. .iﬂu, ,1. _, . ., ,‘ new. .. ”so.” ,.,_, ._, .1 ..

mutu-f-x‘gp‘uamﬁrbw \‘f -._.

'wb‘ for. -q,‘._1.ix.xuf:.:. my?

 

The following is the postscript to a tractate
‘“ On the Cure. Arrest, and Isolation of Small—
pox,” &c., by the late Dr. Garth Wilkinson :—

 
 

Medical Free

em.

The time is to come when general medical
education will surround my profession so closely
that its narrowness and exclusiveness, and its
cliques, will give way under the pressure of the
public. common sense; and no authority will be
left but the authority of facts. I have a great
hope in me to hasten that desirable time.

For competition will be the soul of suecess in
medicine as it is in every other case. Given any
ield of nature or experience to be explored, and
all the faculties of man, all the chances of birth,
,all the gifts of God, all the developments of time,
all the freedom of society, all absence of fear of
man, and fear for position, all good genius and
good ambition is wanted for it; each mind must
be free, and original and inspired, as if there was
nobody else in the world; yet each instructed in
his lower walks by the labours of the rest; and all
animated by a common faith in the inevitable co~
operation of good“ with good, and the inevitable
vconsentaneousness of knowledge with knowledge,
though independence and freedom be the only law
and bond for each.

But now we see the reverse of this, and health
contracted and eclipsed in the' prisons of medical.
establishment.

The maintenance of ”this present condition lies
in the protection of Physic by the State. Continue
this, and an external and well—nigh irresistible aid
is afforded to the existing general condition of
medical art and science, as against anything
which would revolutionise it ever so benignly;
and especially against anything which tends even
remotely to de-professionalise, publicise, and
humanise it. Continue this, and an art and
science which depend upon the natural truths of
God, the capacities of nature, and the genius of

 




2

mankind, and which should be nourished most
intimately of all on the One Exemplar of Revela-i
tion—m‘that art and science are commanded to eat
the dry crusts of Parliament, instead of
the manna of Heaven, and the bread of the
earth; and lawyers and the magistracy stand
with a ferule of penalties to rap the knuckles and
break the exploring ﬁngers of discoverers who-
dare to discover out of accord with colleges, or
who dare to discover at all it they are not Cloister—
vowed and Cloister-bred. Away with such public
insanity. Any other art, similarly narrowed,
would be similarly strangled. Engineering or
chemistry, protected—«or, what is the same thing,
arrested—by the State, would stiffen into Chinese
imitation, and their soul, which is invention, would
be lost; their wordly motive, which is ambition,
unbounded by other men’s power, would be lost;
and their huge sense of freedom, in which they
live and more and have their being, would be
exchanged for the degrading consciousness of the
powdered head and well-ﬁtted livery of the State.

But medicine must be emancipated, and the
public will have to do the work. I address my
medical life and thought to the public; and not
specially to the people in bonds.

Yet would I willingly calm the apprehensions of.
all professional brethren.

Not a college, sect, or diploma will perish
when physio is free from State patronage and
protection; unless public bodies choose to
disband themselves. The only power they
will lose will be the. power of harming other
bodies, or other people not of their way of think-
ing. They will gain the power of emulating in
good works and open-min-dedness all the useful
people whom they have called quacks, and impos—
tors, and unqualiﬁed practitioners, and who have
been the moving wheels of practice in all ages of,
the world. They will gain the humanity of learn--
ing from the dog, when he cures himself with
grass, without practising the now ordinary
ingratitude and inhumanity of kicking the dog
that is their teacher. They will symp-athisingly
learn from the North American Indian, and the-
poor Hindoo, the traditional healing Virtues they
have known since the earliest ages; and their own
old pharmacopoeias will be enriched with the
isweleit1 beginnings of simplicity, of nature, and of
tea t .

‘ ._ ”“113“,.“ “Johann—r . . , .. _ . .7 .i ‘ .
. ._i a: .1...” a- _ , V . .i v A .. . _._ Y ,_.. . ., .
y gum—Q m... y.- Jae.~_LAt—0¢.’L _..._3.~_5_._., ...... ....":s::anm.a<~ 3.; r‘M‘iJﬂX—m‘l‘iﬂ.ai‘sl:— m... :A~‘,-‘-;4—- w m

 

 




 

3

When Parliament no longer prescribes a medicai
profession, and forces the British people to take-
the dose, the public will be more apt than they are
now to send for regular and college-sanctioned
practitioners; provided the colleges give them-~
selves no airs, but compete fairly in the medical
race. For the colleges have the start, and can
enter the course with many chances of success;
provided they take to their hearts the fact of
freedom, and love it as they ought.

At all events we may say it will be their own
fault if they are not the chief ministers at the
public beside.

But would I commit the lives of the community
to the possible intervention of uneducated men?
That, I answer, is the very thing which obtains
at present, and which I would invoke free»
dom to help me to avoid. The education of the
schools cannot ﬁt men for curing the diseases of
their fellows; it is only one way of launching them
towards professional, but not necessarily healing,
life. A man of no Latin, no anatomy, no physio-
logy, is every now and then a good physician.
He is educated for that use, though he cannot
write his own name. By freedom, bring him
iito rapport with the light of learning, if you can;
but at all events kill not the Divine power which
is in him of doing good, because he is not edu—
cated up to your standard. Perhaps you are con—
founding education, which is the accepted art of
making gentlemen, with that grander education,
or leading forth, which every man can have, and
which consists in giving him freedom and a
career, that his original gifts may be led forth, by
their own way, and his own way, into each one’s
promised land of a useful and associated life. To
confound these two educations would be a mis-
take; for the great physician may come in a
beggar’s guise. There are no uneducated men
save the men who cannot do their life-work.
Their success in that gives them their diploma of
knowledge every day. And no college can take
it from them. And none ought to have the power
of obscuring it, by insisting that it shall be
pasted over with an artiﬁéial document of State
paper. '

Want of skill and want of care in medical
practice amount to so much unjustiﬁed death per
annum; but who supposes that State protection of
physic can increase the amount of skill in the

 




4

medical community? The State, it is true, can
exact from everyone, that he or she shall pass
through a curriculum of preparatory studies and
hospital attendance, to ﬁt him to enter upon
practice. But of the studies, many may be
useless, except as accomplishments. From the
studies many useful ones may be left out, owing
to the bigotry of the elders. The diploma may be
sought as the shield of protection to the doctor
rather than the shield of health to the patient.
Numerous men naturally qualiﬁed for medicine,
born doctors, may be, and are, shut out from
their life-work by the expense which conﬁnes the
practice of physio to the richer classes. All the
State licentiates leaning upon their diplomas are
apt from the very security of their position to be
mastered by a conceit in which natural skill must
languish. To be built up against freedom is to
be built up against nature, and gifts of God,
which in healing are given first in the heart; to
be chartered against your brother man, is a bad
preparation for ministering to the sick or the
departing. The root and basis of medicine is the
love of healing in the universal heart and mind;
the stem of it is the instinctive perception and
light which is born to penetrate into health and
disease; the branches, and the twigs, and the
leaves of it are the specialities of perceptions from
the nature and the spirit of mankind, which
become special in the course of experience; the
love of healing reigning and animating in every
one of them. Mere experience in its widest
range is the soil the tree gro-wns in, and the
climate in which it lives. You may garden, you
may deepen, you may purify and enrich this
experience as you like; but the tree grows through
all the world and sciences and societies, and
states have nothing to do but ﬁrst not to deﬁne it,
notto hinder it; and second, to help it if they can.
If it wants pruning, the force of public opinion
and public criticism, and the pressure of public
safety, are the' only instruments that can lop its
sacred life; and all these will play an immeasur—
ably greater part when State patronage has passed
away,

.. And now suppose you had broken your leg, and
it was badly managed by a regular doctor, a
surgeon by Act of Parliament; and that I had
broken my leg, and it was badly set by an
unlicensed .bonesetter; would not your bad man,

.-.,.~s,rm-:;an.:-.-..z.u:.7.a:..a—m.__q- .u zw;n:5xs—s¢~>- a“... a...

 

 




 

5

in an action at law, be tar more likely to escape
from you soot-free than my bad man? You know
he would; because he would be in the fortress 01
legality in the ﬁrst place; and because he belongs
to a powerful clique which will gather round his.
incapacity, and stand up and speak for him, and,
unless it be a very gross case, say they could have-
done no better, and that his antecedents are per--
fect. The pressure of public safety towards each
individual is therefore greatly diminished by
ofﬁcialising a medical profession; thus causing
them all, army—wise, to support each other, and
giving them ofﬁcial irresponsibility towards the--
suffering and the sick. And if you could take
away bones-etters and quacks altogether, the-
medical profession would be utterly uncriticised
and unamenable. We may sum up this branch of
the subject with the axiom, that the more medicine-
is under the protection of the State, the less can
its practice be subject to public opinion, or be:
under the correction of the law.

An impression has been sedulously cultivated,
that anatomy and physiology, pathology, and-
various other branches of science, are the healing
virtue in the world, and that they, and written
Practice of Medicine, constitute positive faculties
in man; whereas they are mere books, or at the
best outlying experiences. Not one of them has.
any direct relation, any rule of thumb, to a single
case that will hereafter occur. In every instance
they require to pass through a living medical
perception to be of any use. That perception,
and all that belongs to it, is, as I have said before,
a spiritual thing, and must only be fed, but not
substituted. or overlaid, by knowledge. It is an
appetite for doing good and working cures, and.
experience and knowledge must feed it; and this
must take place upon true social conditions: that
is to say, all the men who belong naturally to the
calling must be encouraged, by the absence of
State interference, to take their places at the
Board of Healing.

For, mark you, all science and experience
depend for their cultivation upon numbers of the
right men: so many earnest men to the square
miles of medical truth, and you will have greater
crops of knowledge than if only half the number
were employed. And if you take away protection
from this medical corn of humanity, you will have»-
more colleges to grow it; waste. lands of manv"

 




6

minds never cultivated before, sown with it; more
sciences, more extensive anatomy, physiology,
pathology, pharmacy, rising up from the new
interest and curiosity of the enfranchised medical
masses; a greater closeness of these sciences to
the matter in hand; and a quantity of non-medical
minds, who have been forced by mere birth,
parentage, and genteel education, against their
grain, into the cultivation of healing, will be
unable to stand the natural rivalry of born doctors
”of all classes, and will betake themselves to other
callings. In the meantime, there will not be more
medical men, unless society requires them, but
there will be a constant tendency, ever increasing,
that there shall be none but truly medical men
associated with the medical wants of the people.

This ﬂush and inﬂux of Spirit and nature into
the calling will greatly—nay, incalculablywalter
the spirituality and naturalness of the art and its
ancillary sciences. Much will then be able to be
«done by genius and instinct, which is now only
vainly attempted by the cruel senility of an effete
"profession. For the matter stands thus :—-—-Nature
and its sciences must be cultivated, according to
the present exigency and mission of the human
mind, for these are the natural and scientific ages.
Medicine must be extended, falsely or benignly,
from the pressure of the sick upon the sound. The
"world of work, revolving with giddy velocity, brain
and heart, and man and woman, call aloud for
central power to enable us to stand upright in the
rapid revolutions. If the medical faculty—>1 mean
the cohort of healers out of all men is only one-
tenth nature’s strength, and nine—tenths noodle-
wdom from one class only, the one—tenth must cast
about savagely, and most artiﬁcially, for the
missing nine-tenths of their natural mind and their
natural array. Failing to combat disease on such
unequal terms, they must endeavour to generate
power, which is another name for inspiration,
instinct, and genius, out of mere sciences; and
these very sciences perpetually disappointing them
they must necessarily cudgel until there is nothing
left but analysis and detail. Woe then to the
bedside when knowledge itself is dust and ashes;
and woe to nature and her feelings when the rack
and the thumbscrew are applied as the only known
means of eliciting her loving, and on any terms
but love’s, impenetrable secrets.

All this has gone on in our time and for ages

-ﬁy‘qaw— .._ "f”‘in'W‘T'V‘V-K'“ “$1.,“ X’?"J",i

;
i
E

i'
l
l.
t;
! :
l,
l:
H
l‘
‘f
e
f;

tn“

 

 

 

 




 

7

past. If ‘the medical calling had been true to nature
.and to human nature, in which freedom
and the order that springs from freedom
are abiding facts, the monstrosity of vivisection,
of cutting up live animals, never could have been
thought to be a means to the healing art. The
great gorilla of cruelty could never have been
regarded as an ally of the Great Physician. Per-
ception, instinct, genius, the inspiration of Chris-
tianity, which by making men love each other is
the heart and soul of all human arts, would have
”had it given to them to heal diseases without the
need of any suggestion from a torture in which
the demons must rejoice. It would have been
seen at once that to lay one knife-edge upon a
living creature was to cut the supreme nerve that
carries the emotion of humanity right out from
religioninto the medical mind. It would have
been known instinctively that the power of
healing, coming as it should do from Christ direct,
is from that moment paralytic; that the steady will
can no longer lift it, and that the good it still
does is in momentary spasms from the lower
emotions of the man. How different from the
river of power, proceeding down the Divine
steeps, terrace by terrace, to humanity at large,
through faculties which are essentially humane.
And this horrible vivisection is a type of the
other distorting arts and sciences which the false
cramping of medicine into a State-built profession
is one active means of producing. Chemic,
static, and material reasoning have as little to do
with restoration of health as physiology founded
upon the cutting up of living animals. Observe,
I do not deny that vivisection may, as other
analytic methods have done, contribute hints, in
the ages while man is still cruel to man, to prac-
tical medicine; but I deny our right, even with
chloroform, to stupefy animals to gain knowledge
in this way. There are robberies and murders in
nature, and science has no more right to live
upon their spoils than citizens have right to retire
into comfortable drawing-rooms for life upon the
proceeds of daggers and dark lanes. There are
better riches for man and science than these, and
immeasurably better ways of acquiring them.
Time was when the cutting up of living criminals
did contribute to the progress of physiological
"knowledge. There is no doubt of that; but even
Dr. Brown~Sequard would scarcely advocate the

 




 

8

practice as legitimate at the present day. And
now the feelings of every one of his cats and his
crows is worth more than all the science which
their maltreatment has ever brought into his.
store.

Before quitting this branch of the subject, let
us notice that the State also lends a heavy pres-
sure to discourage the introduction of women as
medical practitioners. This it does by chartering
irresponsiblepublic bodies, such as the colleges of
physicians and surgeons, who deny the right of
examination to women, however gifted or accom-
plished they may be; and these brave women, few
at present in numbers, and with no public support,
are obliged to submit without app-cal to this
corporate despotism which has grasped the keys
of the door of medical practice. Surely here, as
in ali other human things, the law is freedom
and experiment. It woman aspires to try her
hand in healing the sick, what is the justiﬁcation
of that power which would deny her the trial?”
You think she had better mind her own business,
and attend to her house and its concerns; but why
then do you not mind yours, and leave her to
herself? If she has not tried the medical life,
how is it possible to know what will come of her
trial? You cannot penetrate a chemical, or a fact
1r. anything, by thinking; you must have experi-
ment, which has made all the difference between
the dark ages of knowledge and the light ages.
Especially in human capacities you must have
experiment: and without freedom, which State
patronage inevitably destroys, you cannot have
experiment. True, woman may be altogether
unﬁt for this work, but let her try, which is the
One only way to prove her unﬁtness. Do not
With your State sword of ungallantry cut her
down 1n her ﬁrst exercises, because you think she
O‘ught'not to succeed. I do not know whether
Statewwll [succeed or not, and that is clearly no
a" '3“. 0f mine; but I do know that if I deny her
the “ght ’50 her eXperiment, besides being guilty
(1):}??? linﬁsf COWatdly meanness and unman'liness,

‘d . Cpnylng 1n the highest instance the divmely
:itsahnrfc? giggleicztglylsuccessful.principle of all the

. ~ . a am crushing the very master~
piece of experiment. J

In short, medic

al social science re oses
. , . i on the
ground of med1 P

cal seeial experiment, just as

j,
t}

r
's

 




9

natural science reposes upon the ground of natural?
experiment.

Instead, then, of cutting up living animals,
favour by freedom the putting together of living
humanities; favour in this way at once the highest
synthesis and the highest experiment; and be
assured that if no other goo-d comes from it,
disburdened and leisure—gifted human nature will
become the vehicle of a spirit and a ﬁre, of a
generosity and an insight, of a thankfulness and"
a penetration, of a love and of a life, before which.
Isis will let drop her veil, and the artiﬁcial difﬁ-
culties which have barred and frozen out the long
lost way to the positive ages will be melted from
before our advancing feet by the smiles of nature
herself.

But besides excluding without trial one half of
the human race, and perhaps the better half, from
the inspired pursuit of healing, State interference
also conﬁnes the cultivation and practice of medi-
cine virtually to the middle class-es. That is to
say, it ordains that the genius of the physician is
only to be found in one rank of society. It erects
a property-qualiﬁcation for exercising the gifts of
God in the chief of the inspirational arts supported
by the chief of the sciences. Apply this all round,
and how absurd it grins upon us. Imagine that
Parliament should insist that no painter, sculptor,
poet, or musician should be born in the upper or
the lower ranks! What .a belief in caste and
Chinese artificiality would this imply; and what
an atheistic denial of gifts, of genius, and of the
mission of Nature’s noblemen, wherever they may
be. And yet Parliament, with-out intending it,
virtually does all this for the medical estate, by
interfering to give privilege to colleges of the
middle class, which thence-forth inevitably proceed
by financial arrangements, and enforced studies,
to make a man ﬁrst a gentleman in accomplish—
ments, and afterwards to let him be a medical
man if his gifts lie that way; and to dub him so in
any case. This, too, is against social experiment,
and affronts nature in her scientiﬁc regard. It is-
the great sburce of quacks among the poorer
classes; the said quacks being evidently persons
With some gift for medicine, but with no means
of an education. Emancipate medicine from--
State—trammels, and poor men’s medical colleges
would arise, and compete not ignobly with the
other colleges. The poor could then be attended

 




IO

by educated people of their own sort, at small
expense, and the masses generally would be raised
by having their own unscorned natural profes-
sions, and a new class of bluff, honest common
senses and artisan ways of natural life and
“thought would be added to these noble arts. The
medical instinct and inspiration of humanity shall
stand upon their feet in the masses.

Nor, then, would medical nature be cashiered,
as she now is, of the splendid culture and chivalric
honour and insight of the upper men and women.
What Lord Napier was to logarithms; what Lord
Rosse is to astronomical experiments; what the
Duke of Sutherland is to rescue from ﬁre; what
‘Nellington was to war; and Prince Albert to the
republicanism of the arts and sciences, that might
other lords and ladies be to practical medicine,
and the inventions which it so much needs. But
make it essentially a middle class affair, and the
lower classes cannot bring their gifts into it, and
the upper classes will not. Yet it is against all
reason to suppose that the noblemen of
"Great Britain do not include a percentage
of medically—gifted men; and also that the same
is not true of the peeple. The fact that as a rule
they yield no recruits to the divine mission of
curing disease is of itself sufficient to show that
some devouring artiﬁciality is preying upon them;
and that a huge injustice is done to gifts for which
we are heavily responsible before God, and to our
fellow men. The protection of medicine by the
State is that artificiali'ty and that injustice.
Remove it, and with it you begin to remove the
baneful belief—now all but universal—~that
medical men can be created by culture; that real
culture can come from without, and that the
nature and gifts of the men are of second—rate
importance. Nay, in the very act of removing
it .you reverse that creed, and make the gifts
primary, and set the culture in the second place.
Will you have less culture for that? Oh! no,
inﬁnitely more! The gifts will become then 80
sacred, and the responsibility of them so exacting
that the sharp and genial powers will raise C01-
le-ges before. which the existing ones could pass
no examination, but, great and corporate though
they be, would inevitably be plucked. Where
itiiegitiusrglwkill there is a way. And the great way

nowledge; but the Will in its purest

 

.fC-I‘TKL‘RT": Pq‘p—ﬁw—rfwvr--a—rww _.. . .-

 

 

 




 

 

II

manifestation is only another name for the deter-
mination of our gifts.

And now, to turn the tables, having shown the
'blighting and vitiating inﬂuence of State
patronage upon medicine, there is another branch
of despotism quite of an internal kind, which
«deserves to be recorded and protested against.
There is the attempt to subject medicine, not to
State law, but to scientiﬁc law; the aim, as the
phrase goes, to make it into a positive science.
The truth is, as I have stated before, that medi-
cine is not a science at all, although nourished
and fed, perhaps, out of all sciences; Medicine
is an Art, and an art reposes upon a gift of God.
and according to the intensity of that gift it is
«called genius, and according to its native and
willing openness to the power above it, it becomes
inspiration. And that art summons and employs
.all the faculties for its furtherance; among them
.all the scientific faculties, and seeks instruction
and advancement from them all. But because it
is an unquestioning rush of instinctive life fro-m
the man into his world and his calling, it cannot
'be dominated by any rule or principle whatever
less than the love of medical good, and
subor-dinately and as a means the love of medical
truth. The doctrine or rule must never be allowed
to invade that centre, any more than the geogra—
phy of the earth must be palmed upon the sun.
If }ou attempt to work it by rule, some one
ambitious principle will extinguish all the much-
nee-de-d others, and you will have war ﬁrst, and
then inconceivable narrowness in your mind.
You will fall into sects, and at the entrance to
“each Mrs. Grundy will stand doorkeeper in your
soul. You will not venture to prescribe what
you know would do good, because it is not of
your self—chosen rubric; and because your fellows
will call you to account for a breach of your bond.
You will cease to look all round for means, and
will wear the blinkers of so-called principle where
the urecipices of your own and your neighbour’s
dairger demand the foot of the Chamois and the
eve of the eagle. Heaven help you; you will be
accortred for blin-dman’s buff when you ought to
be king of the terrible Alps. And all for what?
That you may pretend to an exactness which
nature disowns; and may enthrone the tiny frame
of material science upon the colossal ruins not
only of art, but of faith.

 




 

 

 

12

It cannot be done; there are no positive sciences.
but those of man’s own making—~the houses
which he has built, and in which, therefore, he
can be supreme——the rest are all ﬂuctuating and
so full of mystery before and behind, so meant
also for usefulness and not for absoluteness, that
careful and humble science may indeed be a
positive ship, made in excellent human docks,
but the great, and idesiderated, and unattainable
knowledge is the sea itself, and God is in that
sea. The bark rocks and ﬂoats, and the further
it voyages and the more it moves, the less likely
is it to founder in the inscrutable deep. Let it;
not want to become more positive than speeding
ﬂight can make it; let it not attempt to drop the
anchor of conceit in the unfathomable places.
Let it not dare to say of any spot in the Divine
ocean----'_Fhis is mine!

These matters may sound abstract, but they
are of immense practical signiﬁcance, and play
an important part, for good or for ill, at the
bedside. For if you ﬁnd a practitioner who has
a doctrine which he considers absolute, and who
derives his art from that doctrine, two bad con-r
sequences will follow. In the ﬁrst place, he will
set an overweening value upon the science, pure“
and Simple, of the case he is treating : the exact-
ing doctrine in him will have an unnatural appe—~
tlte to be fed out of that science; and the regard!
of the cure as an end will be perpetually confused
by the regard of the science as an end. I have
felt this so strongly myself in practice that I have
been obliged to put it down, and to tear up in my
mind allmagisterial doctrines and principles, and.
to rel—write them on neutral and subservient parts
oi myself in a humble and ministerial capacity.
Byl'this means, however, I hope I .am attaining
to awrder as well as exacter science in the end :
a scrence which radiate-s from the conscious intel-
lect of .cures. But in the second place the
dectrmaire practitioner will be bound, or greatly
brassed-by his own mind; by the surveillance of
1118 doctr'inair‘e patients, whom he has helped to-
make into pedants; and by the medical clique to
which he belongs—mot to do anything which out-
lies the doctrine which is his creator. Sugges-
trons apart from that doctrine will tend to reduce
hlm ' to a chaos. Wiha't treble fear all this
implies! What a slender exploration of the

 

 




 

 

13

means of nature ! What a regard to a oentre of
the fancy, when sad and bleeding facts lie calling
for pity, and ought to avail to take one quite out
of oneself, and to make one gather succour from
all things. Instead of this, the ﬁrst care is to
practice within the doctrine, and to use no
weapon but what the armoury of the doctrine
contains. It is true you may have the highest
conﬁdence in the doctrine, and may believe it is
.a universal rule, but the universality is only a
belief, and not an established fact; and no number
of human lives can make it more than a belief;
that is to say, a probable, and in the ratio of its
probability, a growing and a useful science.
Nevertheless, you have no right to limit your
powers of doing medical good to such a belief or '
such a science. Observe, it is not the science
but its mastership that I impugn. And I do
impugn it, because it limits you with no com-
pensation; and because in a vast number of
serious cases it does. not succeed; and because
where it does succeed you have ever a duty to
demand a greater success, in greater rapidity and
perfectness of cure. But here again, your master—
ful doctrine tells you that when you have served
it faithfully you have done enough.

It will easily be seen that all this applies with
force to Homoeopathy, a doctrine to which I owe
so much; in which, so far as it goes, I thoroughly
believe; and which, whenever the supreme end of
cure and my means of knowledge allow, I
unreservedly practice. I regard Homoeopathy as
the grandest natural and material feeder which
has yet been laid down by the genius of a man
from the nature of things into the spiritual body
of the healing arts. Yet Homoeopathy is but a
doctrine, a science, and a rule, and I will not
derive medicine from a science, or confound it
with a science; on the contrary, the science of
Homoeopathy itself is a beautiful child and
derivation of an advancing medical art. Let it
occupy a central, a solar place in the science of
therapeutics by drugs. Ther- it can subsist.
But no man can do goo-d by ignoring any of the
wide realms which lie around it and beneath it,
and which are the domain of the collective
medical mind.

In the very matter of which the body of this
little work treats, the gist of the above abstract

 




 

 

 

 

I4

remarks is very well exempliﬁed. For I have-
been allowed to discover that certain formidable
diseases, small-pox to wit, can be treated “ tu-to,
cito et jucunde,” with ‘a safety, rapidity, and
absence of suffering hitherto unknown, by simple:
external applications. In the ﬁrst place, I had
a powerful desire to cure my patients well, and
a dissatisfaction with the present standard of
well in all schools. This desire in its measure is
the natural art of healing. Then, in the next
process, I knew that Hydr'astis soothes irritated,
mucous surfaces, and sometimes skin surfaces, and
I thought I would try it on the face of small-pox.
The only science here involved was an acquaintance
with the drug, and a little reasoning by analogy.
I tried it, and it succeeded marvellously. And
since then I have the art of applying it correctly,
increased by the experience or knowledge of
several cases. And I have faith and conﬁdence in-
its being a future blessing to the public: a saving"
of innumerable healths, and faces, and lives.

But where is the positive science in all this? A.
little goo-d knowledge suffices for a great deal of
good practice. It strikes me that I have been as
little scientiﬁc as a skilled blacksmith who makes
a horse-shoe in a given number of strokes. Of.
course he knows what he is about with great
accuracy; but that is all you can say of his know--
ledge. The rest is educated instinct, and excel-«
lent smithing. He may read about iron and heat,
and the biceps and triceps muscles. of his arm, in-
over hours; and he will better his mind by it, and
not hurt his strong sinews; but the science of his
art must not intrude itself book-wise into his forge,
unless as fuel, or he will soon be a bad professor
and spoil horse’s hoofs. 7

Take the obverse, and suppose that I had en-
throned the Homoeopathic principle above my"
mind, and that I had to grapple with «dreadful small-—
pox: The exigency then becomes, to cure with a
medicine which will produce symptoms as nearly
Similar as possible to those of the disease. I know
no drug which will do this except tartar emetic in
one case which I have seen. I should therefore
have had to cast about through the whole of
Pharmacy for the drug in question: to reason by
analogy from small symptoms to great ones, and
perhaps I should have reasoned wrongly ; and after"
all I might never have found what I wanted. And
when I had found it, I should have lacked prece-

 

 

 




 

 

 

I

01

dent for applying it externally. In the meantime,
what patients unrelieved and unsaved might be
waiting at the doors of my positive science before.
I could throw them open and invite the sufferers.
into relief and into health ! Perforce, I must have
hardened and narrowed and thus satisﬁed my heart,
to let such sad waiting go on. And at the best,
where would be the gain to science? Science is-
but the register of success; and I should have had
no science of shortening the disease, no science
of curing the disease, no science of anything, but
the worst sort of expectancy; the science of con»
tentm-ent with bad things, and the science of wait-
ing for science. In the end, not Homoeopathy, but
the small—pox would be my king.

To obviate this I stood upright, as I have been
gradually for some years now endeavouring to do,
and regarded Homoeopathy, and all other means.
and pathies whatever, as my appointed servants,
and myself as the servant of healing. And now I
had no jealousies among the servants, because I
gave no privileges to any; and I could pick and
choose from all means, regardless of the over-
weeningness of science, of the sectarianism of"
patients, and of the despotism of medical cliques.
In short, I essayed to be free in my art; to wait
upon Heaven, and to- use all ministers and faculties-
in their degree of service. Feeling the blessed
power of this position, in contradistinction to the
cramp and weakness of my old one, I am in duty
bound, even against the charge of egotism, to!
impart it to my fellow men.

What then, it may be asked, becomes of
Homoeopathy? I answer that it takes its place
exactly according to its approved services, and
stands upon the irremovable foundation of its
cures. It will be all that it ever was, the most
suggestive thing in the round of Pharmaceutical
science. Its idogmatism and its hugeness of
minutiae will be cashiered, and Homoeopathy will
be the stronger for losing them. It will be girded
afresh for a magniﬁcent servitude to the ends of
healing. Its martyrs will still prove medicines on
their own bodies, but with an almost exclusive
attention to cardinal results. Its registers of
symptoms, curtailed by good sense, VVlll be
mastered by those who court intimacy with drugs»,
and studied continually afresh where the art of
the physician requires it. The only difference Will
be, that Homoeopathy will become enormously pro-‘

 




 

 

 

 

I6

ggressive, because it will have no authority and no
privilege, and will be obliged to subsist upon cures.
Reduced, so far as authority goes, to equality with
other medical sciences, it will become primarily
ambitious of suggesting remedies, and cease from
pro-vings which leave eat the human memory, and
constitute a new matter and faculty of absolute
dust. But it will no more quarrel with other
means than the mariner’s compass quarrels with
the sextant, or the sails with the steam-engine of
the ship. Above all, mere instrument that it is,
and mere instrument that all science is, it will
never go mad again, and believe that it is the
captain of the medical crew; for that captain is
the Great Physician Himself, and all His sons
and daughters have equal rights in the plenary
freedom of His art.

 

 

’Vaccinatlun Pms and Bans,

—— A REPLY TO
DP. Monckton Copeman’s
Article on ‘ Vaccination ’
in the Eleventh Edition of

“ The Encyclopmdia Britannica.”

 

Price 2d. Post Free, 2%d.
Published by the People’s League of Medical Freedom.

Facts against Vaccination.

Price 3d. Post Free, 4d.

Both Pamphlets are by the Editor of the “ Vac-
cination Inquirer” (the organ of the National
Anti-Vaccination League). Copies may be ob-
tained from the People’s League of Medical Free-
dom, 104, Bispham Road, Southport.

 

 

 




 

 

 

ﬁlm
32‘. MELVILLE C. KEITH’S WORKS.
' Cloth. Paper. Postage.

A

' t9mach and Bowel T1911l3‘93 I/- -— Post free.
SCVCU StL-EC‘EECS {‘0‘}. 5‘10‘11153“. IEellolliollnhlloiﬂltlIIIIIOIIOQOOOOI. 1011/6 -— 6d.

“791112111, the II 11’1‘1Ial;9r ....... 1/6“ 1/- 2d. & Iéd.
Royal Road to lie1l (The Grave”). 3/— 2/- 4d. 8: 3d.
Dis929193 9f Childhood ..... ‘. ......... 6/- -—- 591.
Don. 19sti9 P 991199 and Botanic Handbook:-

I.r. 11th 91*, 28/— .. ................... 25/- -— 6d.
17011113 9f I-ev91, especiall Tyyphoid. 5/- -—- 5d.
"Cancer ...... ......... . ........ ..... ~— 3d. id.
Appen‘icit' -3 ——- 6d. Id.
C9113 9111111 911 ........... . .............. 1/6 —— I—éd.
The 5911‘1— ———‘.‘-.h:r9 it 9011.193 “9111 - 9d. 3191.
King’s C9111i11z'111d, Volume IV. 4/- -—
Theb Ma riaee Bed 15/- ~—-

OTHER AMERICAN WORKS.

~I-yl9’sM..teria1‘xIedica.... ....... .. 12/6

rof. Thurston’s Philosophy of P1y319mchicalism 12/6
“Greer’s Physician in the £19939 5/-
‘ “"1110 am I? ” » "1 Physio-Medical Nbvel.................. 2/-
A. B .b. of Right Lixir... By Prof. Thurst01n............ 6d.
He ealthology . .. . 6/-
Cook’ 3 Science and Practice of Medicine. 23/-
"C9- uk 3 \Voman’s Bqu of heth 8/6

P300915 BY VARIOUS AUTHORS.

IvIarlow’s Fain i'y PI]}31C1C111 3/6 —— 4d.
Kirk’s Paper rs 9n Heilth 3/- -- 4d
Plea for a Simi 3911 Life. 6d. 113d.
Fads of an Old Physician......... 6d. 11d.
Slack’s Herbal .....
Blunt’s H9 119111001: 01. Ierbs 3d. 1%d-
Nut and liruit Dietaly for Brain VVork9-13 (Leppel)...... 2d —-- %d.
Brainy Diet 19r the Healthy (Leppel) --—- 1/— ~11d
Rejecting Allopat‘ny .....
Natural System of ixIedicin e.
Facts against Vacci11ati9-n........................................
Cancer. By Simmons
Sta 9rtling Rexelations C-onceining Smallpox.......
National Botanic Phnrmacopcei .a .........
I3 Vaccination a Disastrous Delusion."
Hygienic Trczument. by Hunter
Household hector. By Thwaites
Bellow’s Philosophy of Eating..............
The Voice of Nature to the Invalid...........................
The Medical Lamp. 291.;
Eale’se and Tab er’s Physiological Chart..................... 12/6 —- 5d.
Epitonber 9f the Botanic Practice of Medici-.ne By ‘
J. Skclton —- 6d. Id.
Potter’Di s rCyclopmdia of Botanic Drugs. 2/6 —— 4d-
Herbalism in Theory and Practice, oTwo Prize Essays,
and Articles on Raspbeiry 1.9211193 91nd Meadow
sweet Herb ........ .. 3d- 1d.

OIOOUIIII aoncuotltI-clo-Iatlaonooliuv

The Case for Medical Freedom................................. —' 3d. 1d

6d.
6d.

llll

lll’fci‘

H
O\ 1:}
Q.

.1911
1

I

N
F‘
1:13“:

2d. é-d.
2d. 1} . ,

11131111
1

6d id:

in
o?
1
43
Q.

1 13

Address :—
(1. II. l’RAI‘vIPTON, Botanic Dispensary, 194, Bispham Road, Southport.

 




322.4 Isod 'umuuv «rad 9/1 p;{ 253mg
:‘ 'p1 and ‘wopaug 12.91pm Jo 2:35:27 5 2Idoaar sq; 510 1495.10 2911

“‘HOILDOCI 9831—] 314.1,”

OVSH

 

":ImdLIInog "pg LIIIILIdsIg "I301 ‘L10.IdLLII31_.I ’H '14) 3.1K OI Iuas sq OI SUOI’JdIJOSCIRS
"spmmdn -/1 LLIOII SI 9113931 a-III OI. UOITIdIJGSan IIII‘IUUV {>qu 'Luopaalﬂ IcoIpaIII
.IIoI QIfZ‘I’ﬁIIIIS OLII LIII3ISIIS OI dIaILI OI ICIII-anI Io SIaAoI III3 OI IIjaddIe 9:1“
‘}['I)IS am [8911' 0-1 IUQJOdLUO-D 813‘ Inc II'IISILIIH
'pIaII 3H asnmaq ‘IUOLULIOSIJduII‘ pun OLIII ICII3IIII OI quBII LIIIH B'DBUI aArzLI
IJIIIOII II ‘pa \II snsaf uaLI CC 9310} III mm mm II II poapuI pUL‘ ‘LIIIUaLI BLIIUIszs‘aJ
OI SURQLU XOpOLIIIOUII .IaLIIo pLIIz stLIS anLI III3 330p pIIIOIA LIoILIAI GSIIUIO
A3 SI aIaLII ‘paaIIp-OII-III ICIILIaoa'I ‘IIIg ILIaLLIpuaLIIV SIJV IUJIIMIII aIII LII
'.IIIAaII3'LIAI ILIo-LLIIBQJI ALIB
.IIIISILIILIIpu OI IIIEII sILI I0 paquI 3C1 II. LAC .IIILIoIIIIQIJId :IILIIAISA‘II .IaLIIo .II) IsIII3anH
:3III pun ‘SSOLDIGIS I0 aILIII LII aAmI III AI CIILII ILIaLIIIUQJI I0 .I)LIUELU II3IIAI apIoap
OI anI3 aq .IOEUOI ou IIIAI aIdoad 8q1‘.10.130p :IILIIII3II0IIV II3III§e I am I0 SIILII3LI
QLII OILII .CIaIIILIa ssrzd IIIAI H SLIIIL :IILI I0 3,113 , QLII II3III Ans OI eIus SI II ‘aIdoad
IILII I0 LuopaalI II QIIIOLLI aLII I0 uBIIsaA ICIIIA'II CI3III3 a>I3I OI uoIssamId IUOI‘palu
aLII I0 Imd mp, 110 SIULuaIIB LII OI IIQIOLIO SI LIoIIIsoddO pOSILmIQIIo snonueuIS-
I3 SSQIUI] pLII:I aLII I0 ACI3I LIOLIILLIrm pun C.IoIIIII3Is aIII OI EIIIIIIOI'JI: ‘SILIB‘II
II3.I0LII pun InﬁaI .IIaLII IIIIIIIn pawn '3.me aIIqIId aLII v191{\\SLIISIJU IIOIImaSOJd
.10 UOIIIIJOSJQd I0 $35133 HU—-—I).IIZOH IIIeLLILIIaAoI) IL’OO’I pun C113 31303 aLuOH
rJIII "3'2—SQIII.I0LIIIIII .IadoId OLII 01(3qu A'I'zI OI IILII3 ‘LUOpan; IU'III .CI3AII3 8>II3I
.IO [I’CUUO OI CoLIaIILmI I3 SLII-II3II LIQ'I‘ICIBIII III3 oIs-oddo OI ‘SJIIIIBLLI II3oIpaLLI LII
QIIIIIId 'IILII I0 LLIoI IIIQJI aLII 8.\.I-3SJJd OJ, IIIIISIICIUISI) LII3IA<I SULI QIIEUQ'I SILLL

'I—Iodq-mos ‘Im-OII uIIrIId-S‘AI ‘301 "II'III ‘.«\Z().LdI‘CV‘aI:I 'H 3.3
:.C.IeIanag IIIIIIIIIIIIg 131m “ .IoInoq (1191.1 ,, I0 .10;ng

321.2031 1L 'AFQI GNV NEIGSK‘I’H LL
:SIIamIsa'I UBEHGIUBQ IIIIA

“Ilﬂdq‘InOS ‘I‘IIAIIS :t-ILIIICII..<I3.:I ‘133 (SIEIZLV‘I 'H 'A'I :szmsvaxl 'iwg

'IoodlaAI'I ‘GQJIUIV ‘EIJBd IIaIIO ‘aAIIQ I3IIOIQIA ‘z ‘NVAAS 'd 'f
:ngmag 'nog
'UOpUO’I ‘NIV‘g IIIIIIIOIIIIQ 'svf
'IGIIIXII ‘IIiIIIIIIIAI °f ~Ixopuo'1 ‘ASIBDVH-ﬁ‘i-(INI’I SSEN
'pIaIIIII-LIS ‘IIAIVAI '5 NIIOI‘ 'IIOIIIIIIIOS ‘SNIAICIOH 'v I'zmg SEEN
‘IO-OdJOA'I’I ‘NVMS 'd IIIIzISOf 'LIoIIog "IOOH "”I 'H
'pIoIImIgI‘ ‘UVHUIIDS 'AA '[ 'IIIIsaLIoLIIIIIq ‘schIIL'oH 'III ssIIzII
’51UU}{ 'N ‘EIDOlSﬁIJg Io MEDIA 'quIIAIIIg ‘IIGIIIIIOJ 'CI '11 'SIIII
“(I011 "V'N ‘SGNV’IIINV'S 'd 'f has}; “GAJIQSSIIQ ‘CaILISV I0 JUSIA
LIopLIo'I “(If u‘EIIIoCIAIINIIH "V N N‘qu AX g 'AQH
UOpUO'] “O‘IIEUCOd “:1 'LIOII 'IIQOQcIICI 'H ”ASH
'LUI’ILIMSUILUIIQ SIII: {11d II3.:,Iau >9-‘1’1 IooIIIapLIappIIq ‘NVd'lle 'AX
'rIIII [Hp 0 \O\\I‘I‘I\ 'svf LIIULIIIIﬁI ‘:I>100119I 'V 'III “EN

: smapgssswa a; A

-IIodLIIIIoS ‘JCEIHSV I Am :IuapIsaJd Ised

3AOIIIAI-II-ummN ‘I306II mung I6 1332'). "VIC "I”IIIHLDJJI‘E 'II ‘V MAI
=IU6I‘II66 I

 




