THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
NEEDS YOUR HELP

New and renewal membership information is inside.

The Animal W/elfare Institute is a non—profit
charitable organization founded in 1951
to reduce the sum total ofpain andfear
inﬂicted on animals by humans.

.2, _ ,

Armed with incontrovertible facts, ﬁgures,
andphotographic documentation, AW] is on
theforefront ofnational and international
ejﬁrts to protect whales, wild birds,

elephants and other magniﬁcent animals
from devastation due to commercial trade, to
ﬁght inhumane methods ofcapturing
furbearing animals and conﬁningfarm
animals, and to reduce numbers ofand

improve conditionsfor animals in
laboratories.

 

 




AVAILABLE FROM

PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007

awi@animalwelfare.com www.mimalwelfare.com

 




 

APPRECIATION AND
PROTECTION OF ANIMALS

Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly
Our magazine dealing with current animal welfare issues, including
treatment of captive animals in laboratories, commercial trade, factory
farms, and traplines, summaries of international meetings, laws and
treaties affecting animals, articles by undercover investigators, and book
reviews. Illustrated, one year subscription. $25.00

Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly
Back issues from 1992 to 1998. Please call or email for availability.
Free
Animals and Their Legal Rights
US legislation, with appendices on important foreign laws. AW, 441
pages, fourth edition, 1990. One copy free to libraries, police and
humane societies. To others $5.00

Man and Beast
by Major C.W. Hume. Essays on animal issues by the founder of the
Universities Federation for Animal Welfare. This really is the first
animal rights book. UFAW, 222 pages, illustrated by Fougasse,

second edition, 1982. $5.00
The Neighbours ’

Anthology of animal poems. UFAW, 117 pages, illustrated by

Fougasse. Free to teachers. To others $5.00

The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion
by Major C.W. Hume. UFAW, 100 pages, illustrated by Fougasse.
$ 10.00

Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer
by Ann Cottrell Free. AW/I and others, 93 pages, illustrated, revised
edition, 1988. $5.00

Since Silent Spring: Our Debt to Albert Schweitzer and Rachel Carson
A speech by Ann Cottrell Free. 17 pages, 1992. $3.50

The Schweitzer Medalists

The medal has been presented for outstanding contributions to
animal welfare from 1955 on. Free

Childhood Cruelty Toward Animals Among Criminals and Non-
criminals
by Stephen Kellert and Allen F elthouse. Study reprinted from Human
Relations, Vol. 38, No. 12. Documents a link between childhood cruelty
to animals and adult violent crimes, 1985. $.50

The Animal Dealers: Evidence of Abuse of Animals in the Commer-
cial Trade 1952—1997
A shocking exposé of cruelty, fraud and negligence in the growing trade
in animals—both in exotic animals and in dogs and cats for research.

Edited by Mary Ellen Drayer. A\WI, 430 pages, illustrated. $6.00

WILDLIFE UNDER THREAT

Flight to Extinction: The Wild-Caught Bird Trade
Report by the Environmental Investigation Agency and AW.
27 pages, 31 color photographs, 1992. $3.00

The Bird Business: A Study of the Commercial Cage Bird Trade
by Greta Nilsson. Foreword by S. Dillon Ripley. AW/I, 121 pages,
illustrated in black and white and color, 1981. One copy free to
libraries. To others $2.00

 

 




Importation of Birds Into The United States In 1985
by Greta Nilsson. Discussion of developments and research in the

caged bird trade. AW, 203 pages, 1989. $2.00

Importation of Birds Into The United States 1986-1988
by Greta Nilsson. A continuation of the preceding report. AWI, 287

pages including tables, 1990. $2.00
Help Us Stop This Cruelty

Full color brochure on the bird trade. AWI, 1989. Up to 10 copies

available free. Additional copies $0.25

Under Fire: Elephants in the Front Line
A report with color photographs and maps by the Environmental
Investigation Agency, 57 pages, 1992. $6.50

Living Proof: African Elephants—the Success of the CITES Appen-
dix I Ban
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. 18 pages,
illustrated in color, 1994. $8.00

The Political Wilderness: India’s Tiger Crisis
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. Illustrated,
1 996. $8.00

Corporate Power, Corruption, 8C the Destruction of the World’s
Forests: the Case for a New Global Forest Agreement
A report by the Environmental Investigation AgenCy. 52 pages,
illustrated in color, 1996.

How to Save the World’s Forests
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. Illustrated, new

edition,1995. $3.00

Slaughter of the Apes: How the Tropical Timber Industry is Devour—
ing Africa’s Great Apes
A report by the World Society for the Protection ofAnimals. 16 pages,
illustrated in color, 1996. $2.00

Russia’s Final Roar: Criminal Threats to the Siberian Tiger and Local
Communities: an Inside Look at a New Fight for Survival
A report by the Investigative Network. 24 pages, illustrated in color,

1996. $10.00

From Forest to Pharmacy: The Global Underground Trade in Bear
Parts
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. 56 pages,
illustrated in color, 1996. $10.00

Why the World Must Kill the Trade to Save the Bears
A report by the Investigative Network. 12 pages, illustrated in color,
1 995. $3 .00

CITES: Enforcement Not Extinction
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. 38 pages,
illustrated in color, 1994. $5.00

America Leads the World in Preventing the Extinction of Species
A report on Endangered Species Act success stories byAWI. 14 pages,
illustrated in color, 1994. Free

 

 




 

TRAPPING

Text of European Community Regulation regarding trapping and

importation of furs. ' Free
Petition against the steel jaw leghold trap Free
Facts About Furs

by Greta Nilsson and others. 257 pages of information on the way
furs are obtained throu hout the world. 79 illustrations, 18
appendices, AWI revisetF edition, 1980. $10.00

Alternative Traps: The Role of Cage and Box Traps in Modern
Trapping, The Role ofLegsnares in Modern Trapping, and The Role
of Spring Powered Killing Traps in Modern Trapping.

By Tom Garrett. 61 pages, illustrated. A\X/I revised edition, 1999.

$8.00
TrappingAgony
The views of Charles Darwin on the cruelty of the steel jaw
leghold trap. Reprinted from Defenders magazine. Free

What is the Real Price ofa Fur Coat?
Cruel methods of obtaining wild furs. Society for Animal Pro—
tective Legislation, 4 pages. Free

Steel Jaw Traps Maim and Cripple Pets
A compilation of articles on pets caught in steel jaw traps.
Society for Animal Protective Legislation. Free

Ban Steel Jaw Leghold Traps
8 1/2” by 14” poster illustrating the cruelty of steel jaw traps.
Society for Animal Protective Legislation. Free

A Survey ofOpinions ofU.S. Citizens on the Use ofthe Steel Jaw
Leghold Trap
Conducted by Stephen Kellert, Ph.D., Yale School of Forestry
and Environmental Studies. Includes a list ofthe 88 nations that
prohibit use of this trap. Free

Leghold Traps Are Inhumane
11” by 17” poster separating fact from ﬁction on leghold
trapping and European Union Regulation 3254/91. AWI.

Free

Opposition to Steel Jaw Leghold Traps is Overwhelming
Results of an opinion poll conducted by Caravan Research
showing that 74% of Americans believe steel jaw leghold traps
should be prohibited. Free

LABORATORY ANIMALS

The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique
by W.M.S. Russell and R.L. Burch. A reprint of this classic book.
UFAW, 238 pages, 1992. $25.00

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals
New, completely revised edition, edited by Dr. Viktor Reinhardt; text
and illustrations provided by the scientists most expert in the housing
and care of each individual species. AW, 120 pages, illustrated, 1997.
One copy free to scientiﬁc institutions, veterinarians or architects. To

others $5.00

Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
Text of the 1985 amendments to the Animal Welfare Act from T/oe
Congressional Record, Vol. 131, No. 175. Free

Humane Consideration for Animal Models
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from AnimaiModels ofT/orom—

basis andHemoW/mgie Diseases. National Academy of Sciences, 8 pages,
1976. . Free

Phys
Scien
by J
pagI
Beyo
Cor

SCCt

labc

Mist:

Com

Hun
ofA

tion
A Bil

Corn

and

ofp

Use 1
Dis.
Nat

Excel
and 1

Cor

tists

Conc
Rep

Protc
Hel
solc
P38
thei

Socia

Opti
By‘
the

Envil
gr ap
by 1
me]
ians

Fact!
C01

SOVV

Hovr
Prot
A tr

fror




Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals: A Review of
ScientzﬁcLiteratureﬁom 1975—1978
by Jeff Diner with a foreword by Samuel Peacock, M.D. AWL 195
pages, 1979. $2.00

Beyond the Laboratory Door
Continues the above review, 1978—1984, and includes two new
sections: “Unjustifiable by Any Standard” (citing USDA reports of
laboratory inspections) and “Photographs of Experimental Animals,”
A\WI, 266 pages, 1985. $2.00

Mistreatment ofLaboratoryAnimals Endangers Biomedical Research.
Commentary by Christine Stevens, Nature, September 27, 1984.Free

Humane Perspectives
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The Future
ofAnimals, Cells, Models, and Systems in Research, Development, Educa—
tion, and Testing. National Academy of Sciences, 1977. Free

A Bibliography for Members of Institutional Animal Care and Use
Committees
Annotated. Includes publications on alternatives to animals, laws
and regulations, training courses, and the psycholo ical well—being

of primates. AWL Free to members of IACUCs, al others $0.50
Use of Laboratory Animals in Research

Dissent by committee member Christine Stevens to the report of the
National Research Council Committee on the Use of Laboratory
Animals in Biomedical and Behavioral Research. 2 pages, 1988.

Free

Excerpts from: Housing; Care and Psychological Well—being of Captive
and Laboratory Primates

A 544 page book edited by Evalyn F. Segal, Noyes Publications.

Contains quotations from 50 leading primatologists and other scien—

tists. 3 pages, 1989. Free

Concentration Camps for Dogs

Reprinted from Liﬁ’ magazine. 8 pages, 1966. Free

Protect Our Pets
Help stop pets from being taken by unscrupulous animal dealers and
sold to laboratories. Society for Animal Protective Legistation, 4
pages. Also, a 2” button reading “Protect our pets ' Stop dog 8C cat

theft.” Free
Social Housing of Previously Single—Caged Macaques: What Are the
Options and the Risks?

By Viktor Reinhardt, Cathy Liss and Christine Stevens. Reprinted from
the journal Animal Welfare. UFAW, 20 pages, illustrated, 1995.

Free

Environmental Enhancement for Caged Rhesus Macaques; A Photo—
graphic documentation.
by Viktor Reinhardt and David Seelig. Free to scientific institutions,
members of Institutional Animal Care and Use committees, veterinar—
ians, and libraries. 47 pages, 1998. To others $2.00

FACTORY FARMING

Factory Farming: The Experiment that Failed
Compilation ofAW Quarterlyarticles showing intensive rearing of calves,
sows and hens and practical alternative methods. AWI, 86 pages, 1987.

One copy free to libraries and humane societies. To others $500

How Astrid Lindgren Achieved Enactment of the 1988 Law
Protecting Farm Animals in Sweden
A translation of articles and letters published in Expressen, Stockholm,

from 1985—1989. AW, 27 pages. Free

 




 

HUMANE EDUCATION

Good Kind Lion
For primary grades. UFAW, 4 pages, illustrated byFougasse.
$0.50 or free With a self—addressed, stamped envelope

Kittens and Cats and You and Your Dog
For primary grades. Humane Society of Huron Valley, 12 and 16 pages
With pictures suitable for coloring. One copy free to teachers, librarians
and humane societies. To others 86 additional copies
$0.50 or free with a self—addressed, stamped envelope

First Aid and Care of Small Animals
by Ernest P. Walker. For use by teachers in '
primary and seconda
schools. AWI, 52 pages, second edition. One copy free to teacherrs):

librarians, humane societies and scout leaders. To others $2.00
Attitudes Towards Animals

by (.hrtstine Stevens. Reprint of article from Tbe American Biology

/ earlier, 3 pages Free

Biology Students as Experimental Subjects
by l5. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article from Tbe American
Bio/0g)! Year/tor. Free

Alternatives that Don’t Harm or Destroy Animals
Substitutes l'or dissection and invasive experiments. Free

l l umane Rules For Canadian Science Fairs
One page. Free

VIDEOS

lit/en rentals are subject to availability and can only be shipped
within the (18'. AH video rentals require a $25.00 refundable deposit
//)/('(1.\’(’ one/use a separate Cheek) and are available for one week.

And on This Farm?
Details the impact of a corporate hog factory on a Missouri farm
eommunity. A Field Pictures production. Please call for availability.

\Vhere l lave All the Dolphins Gone?
Video documenting the dolphin slaughter narrated by George C. Scott.
Marine Mammal Fund. 48 minutes. $5.00

The Farthtrust Driftnet Expedition . . _
\'ideo showing entanglement ofmarine mammals and birds in driftnets.
liarthtrust. 23 minutes. $5.00

America‘s Shame

\'ideo showing suffering oFanimals caught in leghold traps. TheOFOur—
Bearers. 13 tninutes $5.

(ire-gory Peck Speaks Against Leghold Traps

' ' i ' ' ' ' vision
\oetety tor Animal Protective Legislation. PSA for loan to tele

' Free
stations only.

The Pig Picture Q
Video detailing the cruelty of factory
by the Humane l‘armtng Assoc1ation an

d AWI.

Down on the Factory Farm
Video produced by the B

BC documenting cruel conﬁnemggl
showing alternative housing syste -

ms. 50 minutes.

laboratory Dogs
Video showing human
surgery laboratory. Pro

. . o tal
e care and housmg of dogs in an expergrsngél
duced by Crawley Films. .
Animal Detectives .
.v\ “—part documentary serie - ' '
species and shocking abuse OiVVllClllfC around t

investigation Agency 1995. Available from EIA, 15 BO
lane. liondon ECIR OBD. UK.

' ' 31 t ade in endangered
s documenting lllﬁgglolbe. Environment
wling Green

f conditions. Produced
hog arm 00

tand

 




 

 

 

 

SAVE THE WHALES

Whales vs. Whalers: A Continuing Commentary
Articles published from 1971 to 1995 in the AW Quarterly on
national and international efforts to prevent the extinction of
whales. Free to teachers. To others $3.00

The Global War Against Small Cetaceans
Documentation of the hundreds of thousands of dolphins,
porpoises and small whales that are killed and exploited. Asecond report
bythe Environmental InvestigationAgency, 63 pages, illustrated in color,
1991. $6.50

The Continuing Global War Against Small Cetaceans
Anupdate bythe Environmental InvestigationAgency, 46 pages, illustrated
in color, 1996. ' $6.50

Under Fire: Environmental Threats and the Extinction of the

World’s Cetaceans
AnupdatebytheEnvironmentalInvestigationAgency,46 pages, illustrated
in color, 1996. . $6.50

The Gray Zone: Industrial Threats to GrayWhales in Baja, Mexico
Areport bythe Investigative Network, 1 8 pages, illustrated, 1996. $10.00

Strandings: Ways to Save Whales
by Frank Robson. Includes step—by—step instructions to assist
stranded marine mammals. Science Press, hardcover, 123 pages,
over 70 illustrations, 1984. $16.00

What Dolphins Are Teaching Us About Communication: A New
Age Interview with Frank Robson
by Jim Nollman. A ﬁve—page discussion with the author of

Strandings. Free
A Whale of a Friend

An ocean giant and man play together in an historic happening.

4 pages. Reprint from The Toronto Star. Free
A Letter from a Whale

by Anthony Sandonato. For primary grades. AWI, 4 pages. One

copy free. Additional copies $.50
Save the Whales Poster

Richard Ellis illustrations of the GreatWhales. One free to teachers only,

extras $2.00

 

 

 

Animal Welfare Institute

PO Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007
202/337-2332
fax: 202/338-9478
awi@animalwelfare.com
wwwanimalwelfarecom

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007
awi@animalwelfare.com www.animalwelfare.com

I wish to become a non-voting member of
the Animal Welfare Institute.

Cl $1000 Benefactor Cl $500 Patron
CI $100 Friend CI $50 Supporting

Cl $25 Regular Cl $5 Student or
Semor Cltlzen

(Subscription to A W] Quarterly included)

NAME

ADDRESS

 

CITY

STATE

 

INSTITUTION

 

Please send me the items marked, for which I

enclose $ -
(DC residents add 6% sales tax to all orders.)

 

 

1:] Check or money order (payable to
the Animal Welfare Institute)

L] Visa or C] MasterCard
Card Number:

DUDE DUDE DEED DUES
Expiration date: [1 D - D [:1

Month Year

Signature

 

 

 

All orders should be accompanied by payment. To lower
expenses, an acknowledgment of your gift will be sent only

upon request. If you require a receipt, check here [3.

Teachers, please use school letterhead and indicate grade
level. We regret that only reprints and leaﬂets can be pro—
vided free to student teachers.

 




NATURE VOLSII 27 SEPTEMBER IW

 

 

COMMENTARY

Mistreatment of laboratory animals
endangers biomedical research

from Christan Stevens

There is now an opportunity for legislators in the United States to rescue medical

researchers from themselves.

IN the United States, laboratory animals
are used in much greater numbers and
subjected to far more neglect and
mistreatment than elsewhere, in Britain for
example. The reason for this is simple: US
law does not come to grips with pain
”prevention. In the absence of an adequate
regulatory regime, an all too casual attitude
has developed. Pain relief, or indeed any
sort of post-operative care, is often omitted
in laboratories, test procedures are un-
necessarily duplicated and even the
minimal standards of care required by
current law are routinely ignored. These
negligent attitudes are reinforced by a
chronically short-staffed and underfunded
federal enforcement programme on the
one hand and, on the other, an aggressive
lobby of commercial animal suppliers
whose objective is, simply, to sell as many
animals as it can to researchers and testers.

New Bills

An opportunity has now presented itself to
bring the federal Animal Welfare Act up to
a level roughly comparable with the laws
governing the use of laboratory animals in
Britain and fourteen European countries.
Congress has been presented with two
, legislative proposals, the Senate with a bill
(8.657) introduced by Senator Robert Dole
(Republican, Kansas) and the House of
Representatives with one (H.R. 5725)
introduced by Representative George
Brown (Democrat, California), both of
which have been endorsed by the American
Veterinary Medical Association. Unfor-.
tunatcly, opposition organized largely by
the trade association representing
laboratory animal breeders has so far
prevented these proposals from getting
anywhere.

There is no shortage of examples of the
current act’s deﬁciencies. The only pain-
reducing provision is a deliberately vague
phrase included under a general require-
ment for “adequate veterinary care”
which calls for “appropriate use of anaes-
thetic, analgesic and tranquillizing drugs”.
Public scrutiny of compliance with this
provision is provided only by a requirement
that laboratories list the numbers of
painful experiments and tests conducted
without such drugs, and then note the
reason in a one-page annual report.

As a result, compliance even with this
vague requirement has been casual in the
extreme. The majority of medical schools
boldly claim, year after year, that all the
pain and distress they cause experimental
animals is prevented by pain-killing drugs.

 

(Pharmaceutical houses tend to be more
honest in admitting that they inflict
suffering; this they usually blame on the
testing requirements imposed by the Food
and Drug Administration.)

Under the current law, it is entirely up to
the researcher to determine whether pain-
relieving drugs are necessary. Edward
Taub, who received much publicity after
the National Institutes of Health (NIH)
suspended support for his research on
deafferented monkeys, claimed that his
superior knowledge made veterinary
advice unnecessary. He claimed that no
pain-relieving drugs were needed because
sensory nerves were cut in the procedure he
was using. But Dr William Pryor, the lab‘
oratory veterinarian at East Carolina
University, testified before a Health and
Human Services Department appeals panel
to which Taub had taken his case that
analogous procedures on humans result in
great post-surgical pain, and he
recommended an analgesic speciﬁcally
suited for the purpose.

At the University of California at
Berkeley, researchers charged that
graduate students conducting major
surgery, including the removal of eyes from
cats, in Dr Russel DeValois’s laboratory,
often administered anaesthesia incorrectly.
One witness said, “From the high-pitched
squealing of the kitten, it was obvious that
the animal was experiencing intense pain’ ’.

The Dole/Brown proposals would
impose the very modest requirement that
researchers consult with a veterinarian in
the planning of any procedure involving
pain to unanaesthetized animals. The bills
would also require that postroperative care
be provided and that proper staff be avail-
able at nights and on weekends. This might
do away with the scheduling of surgery at
entirely inappropriate times, as happens
now. I have seen unconscious post-surgical
dogs left in a room with twenty other
barking dogs at 3.30 on a Friday afternoon
“Been doing some cutting today?” the
veterinarian said to a caretaker down the
hall. “Yeah”, he nodded.

British act

Before giving further examples to illustrate
the need for improved legislation in the
United States, I should note that about
thirty years ago, I went to Britain at the sug-
gestion of my father, Robert Gesell, Chair-
man of the Physiology Department at the
University of Michigan Medical School, to
consult those whom he considered the best
biomedical scientists to get their views on

 

the British. act regulating animal experi-
mentation. I spoke to Sir Alexander
Fleming, J.B.S. Haldane and many other
distinguished investigators, and visited
their animal rooms.

Even though funds were extremely
limited at the time (just after the Second
World War), I found the animals far better
housed and looked after than in most of the
American universities I have recently
inspected. Fleming’s rabbits were fine-
Iooking creatures, at ease in cages big
enough for them to take a hop or two and
sit up in the classic Easter rabbit pose if they
felt so inclined. Haldane’s newts lived in
large well-furnished aquaria. In the dog
laboratories I visited, the dogs occupied
good-sized pens — in sharp contrast with
the small cages stacked to the ceiling in
many US dog rooms of the period, where
the cages were commonly hosed with the
dogs still inside trying to dodge the stream
of water. .

No scientist I interviewed during my visit
complained of the British Cruelty to
Animals Act. Indeed, I was told that it was
of much value in bringing home to young
research workers their responsibilities to
experimental animals. Neither the
individual licences nor the pain conditions
under which they worked were burden-
some. The general attitude was summed up
later, when Sir Graham Wilson and Dr
Lawrence Abel came to the United States
to testify at a Congressional hearing on 30
September 1965. Dr Abel, a former vice-
president of the Royal College of
Surgeons, said in part: “We do not commit
the atrocities which are reported from time
to time in some other countries. We do not
allow the extravagant cruelty committed by
some investigators of stress and shock. We
have proved that the desired results can be
obtained by less inhumane methods’ ’. This
testimony was so telling that the sub-
committee chairman, to whom a word
from NIH was law, decided to suppress it.
The second day of the hearing was
cancelled, and the hearing record was never
published.

I returned from Britain convinced that
the British act was a boon to animals,
admired by British scientists and altogether
most valuable despite its age and the need,
in certain respects, for updating.

But on the other side of the Atlantic,
there was a violent reaction by groups such
as the National Society for Medical
Research when a streamlined bill built on
the principles of the British act was intro-
duced by l3 leading senators. NIH’s public

 




 

296

NATURE VOLJII 2'7 SEPTFMBER I984

 

 

response was less frenetic but equally
adamant. NIH even went so far as to with-
draw and secrete hundreds of copies of a
substantial study it had contracted for
because the report clearly showed wide-
spread mistreatment of experimental
animals and indicated a need for regulatory
legislation.

- Blocking tactics

Senator Lister Hill, named after the illus—
trious British bacteriologist, was NIH’s
man in the Senate, and he loyally sat on the
bill for six years, refusing all attempts to get
it to hearings in the committee he chaired.
Not until a stolen dalmatian, trucked
across state lines by a dealer in laboratory
dogs, ignited an unquenchable public
interest, did legislation on laboratory
animals reach the Senate floor via a dif-
ferent committee. As soon as it did, the
vote to protect the animals was unanimous.
Unfortunately, the bill (although opposed
as fiercely as the better drafted bill based on
the British Act) was weak and narrow in its
coverage. Amendments passed in 1970 and
1976 finally gave the Secretary of
Agriculture authority to include all warm-
blooded animals, and required users to
report painful experiments and tests
conducted without anaesthetic, analgesic
or tranquillizing drugs.

Mistreatment of laboratory animals in
the United States in some cases involves a
failure to provide even basic care, let alone
pain-relieving drugs. For example, at the
Veterans Administration (VA) Hospital
connected with Stanford University
Medical School, a medical student working
late was startled to find an experimental
dog collapsed at the door of his room. He
promptly called the VA veterinarian, but
she refused to come to treat the obviously
suffering animal, so the student took the
dog to the veterinarian on duty at the
emergency service, who determined that it
was past any possible treatment and
euthanized the animal. A necropsy showed
nothing but hair in the animal‘s stomach.
The festering sores showed no sign of treat-
ment. The hospital’s claims that nothing
was seriously wrong and that another dog
had inflicted the injuries were hopelessly
unconvincing.

Refusal to acknowledge error, no matter
how grossly evident , appears to be a common
weakness among those who neglect and/or
mistreat laboratory animals.

The veterinary inspectors of the US
Department of Agriculture (USDA) some
times try to use their limited authority
under existing law to require proper pro-
cedures. For example, at the University of
Chicago, brain surgery was being con-
ducted on squirrel monkeys in an ofﬁce off
at him corridor. An offieetablc was used as
an operating table. Instruments were not
properly sterilized. The inspector called for
immediate transfer to one of the uni—
sersit\"s regular operating rooms.

The proliferation of poorly controlled
experimentation in dozens of sites on a

 

COMMENTARY

campus makes USDA’s task difﬁcult, and
since the ﬁnancial provision for enforce-
ment of the Animal Welfare Act has never
been adequate, it has sometimes been years
before every nook and cranny where
animals are stowed away has been ferreted
out. At the University of California at
Berkeley, it took a new inspector to ﬁnd
them all. USDA finally brought a case
against the Berkeley campus, charging
major violations. The case was recently
settled when the university agreed in a
“consent decision” to pay a $12,000 fine,
establish a training programme for animal
handlers and to “cease and desist” from
violating the Animal Welfare Act.

The seeming inability of this institution
to control its faculty and students is
revealing in the light of the thick report of
its own specially constituted committee
emphasizing that “more diligence on the
part of the investigators and better
discipline of the caretakers at a minimum
of additional costs” would resolve most of
the problems. A typical USDA inspection
report reads: “Monkeys in room 625 are
fed by placing feed in waste pan under ﬂoor
grill —— no feeders present . . . in many
rooms a build-up of faeces . . . no regular
observation of animals by caretaker under
veterinarian’s supervision. Some question
of DVM [Doctor of Veterinary Medicine]
even having access to animal quarters let
alone establish an adequate programme of
veterinary care.”

Reports for all 1,166 Registered

Research Facilities in the United States may '

be obtained under the Freedom of Inform-
ation Act (FOIA); the Animal Welfare
Institute [of which the author is president]
has been studying a series of these over the
past six months. The reports are
astonishing ——- Harvard, Yale, Johns
Hopkins, Vanderbilt, the universities of
Utah, Rochester, Pittsburgh, each
receiving between $17 and $51 million a
year from NIH, all accredited by the
American Association for the Accredit-
ation of Laboratory Animal Care,
regarded by NIH as an ironclad guarantee
of first-class care and treatment ofanimals,
repeatedly violate USDA’s minimum
standards.

Most frequently recurring are: cages too
small for monkeys, dogs and rabbits to
make normal postural adjustments, green
scum in the water bottles, inadequate
ventilation, and just plain ﬁlth. These
notes on the University of Utah are typical:
“Primates have inadequate space
ﬁlters are pretty well plugged with hair . i .
large rabbits [weighing] 9 to 11 pounds
have 432 square inches and they should
have at least 540. . .some of the cages are
not high enough that rabbits can stand up

feed in some feed containers
contaminated with urine from top cage.”
Or from Rochester: “Primates in Room
6-7573B are being kept in cages which have
not been sanitized for over 6 weeks.” At
Pittsburgh: “The [cat] room did not
appear to have been cleaned since the last

 

inspection . . . 24 hours for correction.”
At Harvard a list of 23 different animal
rooms housing dogs, cats, guinea pigs,
rabbits, gerbils and monkeys used old,
rusty, difficult—to-clean cages. The
inspector also noted “loose sharp wires”
and wrote “it appears sanitation is non-
existent while animals are in isolation
chambers”. One might suppose that
correction would be automatic when
USDA inspectors write such comments and
the institution’s attending veterinarian
signs off on them. But unless the inspector
actually recommends that USDA’s
General Counsel prepare a case against the
institution, the deficiencies frequently drag
on, as documented in the Animal Welfare
Institute’s files.

The USDA inspectors urgently need the
increased authority that the Dole and
Brown bills would give them, and they need
the assistance which institutional
committees under this legislation would
provide. Key provisions include the
appointment of a committee member not
employed by the institution “responsible
for representing community concerns
regarding the welfare of animal subjects”,
and the requirement that the committee
make semi-annual inspections of “all
animal study areas and facilities”. In
addition institutions would be required to
inform their employees to report violations
of the law to the institutional committee so
that prompt corrective action can be taken.
Employees would be protected from
discrimination against them which many
fear at present if they request better
treatment of animals.

The basic purpose of the Dole and
Brown bills is to prevent needless suffering
before it occurs. By putting all personnel
on notice that they are not to turn a blind
eye to such suffering, the observant and
compassionate would occupy the position
now frequently usurped by the callous and
domineering. All too often, when I visit
laboratories I hear the words, “but don’t
say'l told you”. This is absurd when the
heads of institutions urgently need to know
about mistreatment of animals. If they do
not know and thus cannot take effective
corrective action, they are increasingly
likely to find themselves in the
embarrassing position that scandals
nobody dared to tell them about are
publicly revealed. The consequence of that
will be increasing erosion of public faith in
institutions supported by the tax payers.

Prevention of needless suffering would
also be advanced by the provisions of the
Dole/Brown bills that aim to eliminate
the wasteful duplication of animal
experiments and tests. Unintended
duplication of government tests was
estimated in 1981, by the head of the
Interagency Regulatory Liaison Group, to
have wasted thousands of millions of tax
dollars, yet there is nothing in the Animal
Welfare Act as it stands to prevent
recurrence of this needless use of animals.
The Dole/Brown bills would establish an




NATURE VOLBII 2" SEPTEMBER I984

 

information service, in cooperation with
the National Library of Medicine, to
prevent such duplication. (Purposeful
replication of research would be
unaffected.) This service would also handle
information on alternatives to animal
experimentation and testing.

Enlightened self-interest alone should
cause every medical school to back the
Dole and Brown bills. Failure to protect an
investment of millions of dollars by
supporting reasonable legislation is
shortsighted. But such is the prejudice
against legislation, especially on the part of
those who do not read the words but rely on
lobbying organizations’ generalizations,
that the Dole and Brown bills are still
widely resisted. Organizations that fought
the 1966 Laboratory Animal Welfare Act
with almost hysterical intensity now,
having become accustomed to it, join in
testimony before Congress to increase
support for its enforcement. No doubt they
will do the same ifthe pending amendments
to improve the law are passed.

But the opposition is stepping up its
activities. At least that is the sinister
reading of the recent decision by the
executive director of the Association for
Biomedical Research (ABR) to move to
Washington, DC. ABR was founded in
1979 by a small group of animal breeders
(including Henry Foster, founder of
Charles River Breeding Laboratories, the
largest purveyor of laboratory animals in
the world) and biomedical researchers who
felt a need for “active representation” on
legislation affecting the use ofanimals. The
organization includes about 200
institutions, including medical schools,
pharmaceutical companies and breeders,
who depend on animal research. Anyone
who doubts that animal research is big
business should examine the case of
Charles River, which began as a two—room
rat-breeding facility and which was
recently acquired by Bausch and Lomb, the
optical company, in a stock transfer that
netted Foster nearly $38 million, according
to press accounts.

The spectacular growth of the industry
might be slowed by the Dole/Brown bills’
requirement that investigators consider
alternatives to animals, and by the in-
formation service that the bills would
establish to provide facts on “methods
which could reduce or replace animal use”.

Not surprisingly, ABR has favoured
substitute legislation sponsored by Senator
Orrin Hatch (Republican, Utah) and
Senator Edward Kennedy (Democrat,
Massachusetts) that would call on the
National Academy of Sciences to conduct
an 18-month study of the current use of
animals in research. This legislation has
already been passed by the House of
Representatives, incorporated as part of
the NIH authorization bill.

Although ABR says that a study is
needed in order to determine whether
problems really do exist in the use of
research animals, its director, Frankie

 

297

 

COMMENTARY

Trull, offered a possibly more candid
explanation of its support for study
legislation in a recent talk she gave to
faculty, staff and students at the University
of Illinois at Chicago Health Sciences
Center. Trull told the audience: “Now, we
are criticized for being strong proponents
of study legislation by animal welfare
organizations who say this is a stalling
tactic. Well . . . none of us was born
yesterday. The fact of the matter is that, in
some ways, it is a stalling tactic.” And in
response to a question from the audience
on how to deal with the media, Trull
offered this advice: “You don’t answer
their questions. In other words, they’ll say,
‘isn’t it true that 83 per cent of all animals
had pain-killing drugs withheld during
experimentation in your facility last year?’
By the way, they know all that stuff. God
bless the Freedom of Information Act,
they know everything about everything.
What you do is you say something like, ‘In
1983, in our research institution, we were
able to develop a breakthrough in
Alzheimer’s disease.”’ Trull warned that
unless researchers take the fight seriously,
what happened in Britain could happen in
the United States. “England has had
horrendous problems, historically, with
antivivisectionists . . . thereis no question
in my mind that the English, in fact, really
truly do like their animals better than their
people.”

In calling on her scientific audiences to
do battle with “the other side”, Ms Trull
deliberately fosters confusion between
soundly based regulatory legislation and
antivivisectionist sentiment. She
emphasizes the rash of break-ins by animal
rights groups. “The reason I say please
clean up your own shops is that the break—
ins are inside jobs, everyone of them. By
inside jobs, I mean that some sincere,
genuine animal technician or cage cleaner
or whatever, goes to an animal rights rally
or reads an article in a magazine and wants
to help the other side. Every single one of
the break-ins in the 30 or 40 we’re aware of
involve inside jobs.”

A rational response to this would be to
enact the appropriate legal escape valve in
the Dole/Brown‘bills so that personnel
who observe mistreatment of animals are
protected against reprisals when they blow
the whistle — and that a local institutional
animal care committee exists to receive
such complaints, investigate, and order the
problem corrected. But such a sensible
procedure is anathema to ABR, which
thrives on an “us and them” mentality.

Edmund Burke’s advice to choose early
reform, which he described as
“accommodation with a friend”, as
against late reform or “capitulation to an
enemy,” is lost on the lobbyists who fight
against proper regulation of animal
experimentation. Thus the biomedical
community which needs the Dole, Brown
bills as much as the animals do, is listening
to badly biased adx'ice inspired by vested
interests that seek to increase commercial

 

profits and

services.

on animals; equipment

Pain clause

Most European countries have legislation
which addresses pain prevention, often
more specifically and strictly than the
Dole/Brown bills. The pain conditions in
the British act, for example, which have
proved workable over more than a century,
have spared great pain to large numbers of
animals. .The proposed bills. require
assurances that paralytics may not be used
without anaesthesia, and pain relief or
euthanasia may not be withheld when not
scientifically necessary, much milder
provisions than those which obtain in
Britain.

At present, it is common for animals to
be left to die in agony, and no law requires
that they be euthanized even when the
experiment is over. Nor does current law
specify that dogs must be released for
exercise outside their cages. The Mayo
Clinic is still hosing cages with the dogs
inside. Small wonder that contagion is rife
among the more than 500 dogs recently
viewed by the 13 owners of stolen dogs that
Mayo had purchased, despite repeated
warnings that many of the dogs they kept
buying seemed to be pets. Before the recent
scandal broke, Mayo even bought dogs at
the laboratory door. Now a sign is posted:
“All please note. We no longer purchase
dogs from individuals. But we continue to
take them as gifts.” It was through this
unexpected review of Mayo practices that
the dehydration of Mayo dogs came to
light. Two owners reported that their dogs
immediately drank five-quart pails of
water on their return home, so intense was
their thirst.

It is only natural for people to become
angry when the privilege of using
laboratory animals is so grossly abused.
The US Congress and people generally
want the abuses stopped. Neither Congress
nor the overwhelming majority of the
public want a ban on experimentation.
Scientists of good will should recognize
this, reject the paranoia sown by lobbyists
and join with legislators such as George
Brown, a tried and true friend of science,
and Senator Dole, whose record on fiscal
responsibility has earned him great respect
for sound decision making.

“Those who experiment upon animals”,
Albert Schweitzer wrote, “by surgery and
drugs or innoculate them with diseases in
order to be able to help mankind by the
results of pain, should never quiet their
consciences with the conviction that their
cruel action may in general have a worthy
purpose. In every single instance, they
must consider whether it is really necessary
to demand of an animal this sacrifice for
men. And they must take anxious care that
pain be mitigated as far as possible.” ”"

 

 

Christine Stevens is President of the Animal
Welfare Institute, Washington, DC, 20007,
USA.

 




1121111176

 

NATURE VOLJII 27 SEPTEMBER lm

 

titastrinzmminimx N - mam

M}: .m wwumnm mu uw

A pillar of light at the anthelic point (opposite the Sun)
photographed on 28 March 1978 at Point Barrow, REPRINTS OF TH IS ARTICL E

Alaska. This effect is caused by light from the Sun (at an
elevation of 6°) undergoing up to four internal

reﬂections within airborne ice crystals. See page 339. MAY B E ORDERED FROM

OPINION—— ' THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Poor control for US in formation 285

Orphancdacademy 286 BOX 3650 , WASHINGTON, D. C. 2 0007
Redundant agency

NEWS

Nuclear winter

Netherlands budget

Publication controls

In vitro fertilization

Information technology

Model zoo

Arms control 290
Toxic hazards in Britain

Archaeology

UN biotechnology 291
Badgers at bay

Sellafield

French research 292
UK biotechnology

Florida citrus 293
Danube environment

-CORRESPONDENCE—

On “Science for the people”/How
to name genes 294

—— COM MENTARY—

Mistreatment of laboratory animals
endangers biomedical research
C Stevens 295

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

“Is it not illogical to hunt
a species to extinction?”

—Mr. Spock
Star Trek IV:
The Voyage Home

THE
WHALES

 

 

 

 

 

“IS IT NOT ILLOGICAL T O HUNT A SPECIES T O EXTINCTION?” asks Mr. Spock in Star
Trele IV: The Voyage Home. This question raised by the always logical Mr. Spock is ech-

oed by environmentalists worldwide.

 

BUT THE KILLING GOES ON

 

“In the light of our present
knowledge of these magniﬁcent

because a few natiOns cynically continue to liquidate the remain- mammals, no civilized person

ing whale stocks.

Hunted to the brink of extinction, the great whales now survive
in such few numbers that scientists fear several species may dis-

can contemplate whaling without
revulsion and shame at the
insensitivity of our own species.
Whaling is an aﬁ‘ront to human

appear forever. The slaughter continues, carried out by a handful dignity, a debasement of human
of nations defying the warnings of scientists and the appeals of values and sensitivities.”

millions of concerned citizens throughout the world.

—Sir Peter Scott

Japan, Norway, and Iceland are sending their fast catcher boats “The moot point is, whether

to chase down the last of the whales.

They seek to extract the last yen and kroner from the slaughter of

the magniﬁcent whales.

 

 

 

 

Sperm Whales (Richard Ellis)

Leviathan can long endure so
wide a chase, and so remorseless
a havoc . . . ”

-—Herman Melville

 

WHALIN G MORATORIUM
DEF IED

In 1972, the United Nations Conference on
the Human Environment, meeting in Stock-
holm, unanimously called for a moratorium
on all commercial whaling. The whaling
nations deﬁantly ignored the appeal—and
have killed more than 550,000 of the great
creatures since. Then in 1982, the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission (1W C) adopted
by 25 to 7 an indeﬁnite moratorium on all
commercial whaling. They found the num-
ber of whales so depleted that a total cessa-
tion is necessary to give the populations a
chance to recover. The majority of the whal-
ing nations have complied, but three arro-
gantly continue to hunt.

The United States has laws calling for economic sanctions against outlaw whaling nations, but the govern-
ment has been reluctant to enforce them. Indeed, it took a lawsuit by conservation and animal welfare
groups to force the administration to impose an automatic penalty against Japan. In February 1988, Japan
was formally barred from ﬁshing within the US. 200-mile zone under provisions of the Packwood-

Magnuson Amendment.

But State Department bureaucrats have, so far, prevented use of the much heavier sanctions provided by
the Pelly Amendment: embargo of some or all ﬁshery products from the offending nations. Japan, Iceland
and Norway export hundreds of millions of dollars of ﬁsh to the US. each year.

 




PLEASE HELP DECIDE THE FATE OF THE WHALES

What will future generations of humans say of us? Will they pay us
tribute for halting the greedy slaughter of the creatures with the
most complex brains on earth? Or will they condemn us for
callously allowing the extermination of an entire intelligent race,

 

“ an he who has discovered the
values of whalebone and whale
oil be said to have discovered the

one that evolved over 200 million years, for margarine, livestock true sense of the whale? Can he

feed, and whale steaks.

Whaling nations are now claiming they must kill whales for “sci-
entiﬁc research.” But it is the same Whalers and the same ships
and the whale meat and oil goes to the same markets. The Scien-
tiﬁc Committee of the IWC has refused to endorse these “re-

who slays the elephant for his
ivory be said to have seen the
elephant? These are petty and
accidental uses; just as if a
stronger race were to kill us in
order to make buttons and

search” whaling schemes, and the full commission has adopted ﬂageolots of 0m. bones.”
resolutions directing the whaling nations to refrain from killing _Hem.y David Thoreau
any more whales. Japan, Iceland and Norway have ignored all ap-

peals to end the slaughter.

 

PUBLIC PRESSURE IS CRUCIAL NOW

Please take these actions to help the whales.

1. Boycott all goods from Japan, Iceland and Nor-
way. Hit the whaling nations in the only place
they can understand, their pocketbooks. Ask
your friends to join the boycott. Particularly tar-
get ﬁsh from the whaling nations. Much of the
fresh salmon sold in the United States comes
from Norway. Many fast food restaurants use Ice-
landic cod for their ﬁsh sandwiches. Artiﬁcial
crab legs (surimi) are marketed by the Japanese.
Ask your local markets and restaurants to buy
their ﬁsh elsewhere.

. Write a letter to President Reagan urging him to
enforce the US. Pelly Amendment against the
whaling nations for their deﬁance of the morato-
rium. Ask him to embargo their ﬁshery products.

The State Department must not be allowed to
sell out the great whales again. President
Reagan’s address is The White House, Washing-
ton, D.C., 20500. Send copies to your two
Senators and your Representative. Senators may

be addressed: Senate Ofﬁce Building, Washing-
ton, D.C. 20510. Representatives may be
addressed: House Ofﬁce Building, Washington,
DC. 20515.

. Write letters to the Ambassadors of Japan, Ice-

land and Norway demanding that they halt the
needless slaughter of the whales. Their names
and addresses are:

Japan Norway

His Excellency His Excellency

Nobuo Matsunaga Kjell Eliassen
Ambassador of Japan Ambassador of Norway
2520 Massachusetts Avenue, NW 2720 34th Street, NW
Washington, DC 20008 Washington, DC 20008

Iceland

His Excellency

Ingvi S. Ingvarsson

Ambassador of Iceland

2022 Connecticut Avenue, NW
Washington, DC 20008

 

 

You can help save the whales and publicize the
boycott compaign by making a TAX-DEDUCTI-
BLE CONTRIBUTION to the Save the Whales
Campaign. If you believe in this effort, please
give generously. For a donation of $20 or more,
you will receive a beautiful six-color print of
sperm whales by renowned marine life artist
Richard Ellis. Measuring 20" x 26", they are
printed on ﬁne art paper and are ready for
mounting. (See reverse side of ﬂyer.)

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE PO. BOX 5650, Washington, DC. 20007 Christine Stevens, President
IF THIS ORDER IS URGENT, PLEASE ADD $2.50 FOR PRIORITY MAIL, POSTAGE AND HANDLING.

I want to help save the whales. Please send me:
Copies of this leaﬂet
Petitions
Posters (one free, extras 81.00)
__ “Sperm Whales” print
(a donation of $20.00 or more per print)
Enclosed please ﬁnd $__ to help SAVE THE WHALES

and $___ for my order.

“SAVE THE WHALES” T-shirts
__ Adult’s T-shirts ($6.00 each)
C] Sm [1 Med [1 Lg El X-Lg
__ Children’s T-shirts ($5.00 each)
III Sm El Med El Lg
_ Adult’s sweatshirts ($15.00 each)
C] Med El Lg E] X-Lg

MAKE CHECK PAYABLE TO: Animal Welfare Institute (D.C. residents add 6% sales tax)

Name (please print)

 

Address

 

 

City

 

 

 




The
Animal
Welfare
Act is in

Danger

Enforcement of America’s principal federal law
for the protection of animals is being ‘
undermined by the National Association for
Biomedical Reseach. Essential regulations for
implementation of amendments passed by the
Congress in 1985, Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals, are being blocked. Efforts
are even being made to weaken regulations that
have been in place for many years to make them
impossible to enforce.

HOW LONG CAN THE LAW BE FLOUTED?

 




Hmv-sCDt-t—tm

Ruth Fremson - Washington Times

 

Millions of animals
suffer needlessly
because the federal law
Congress passed to
protect them is being
eviscerated
by a
lobbyist and
the vested
interests she
represents.

 

Frankie Trull

When the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act was passed in
1966 it inspired enormous public support - more letters,
members of Congress reported, than even the Vietnam
War. And when it was broadened and strengthened in
1970, 1976 and 1985, the same public outpouring de-
manded protection for the animals. Now dealing behind
closed doors, the National Association for Biomedical
Research (NABR), is dismantling the mandate of Con-
gress and circumventing the will of the American people.
N ABR is trying to erode the existing standards and block
promulgation of the regulations for the Improved Stan-
dards for Laboratory Animals amendments. An objec-
tive analysis from the Government Information Insider
of OMB Watch details what is happening. It is reprinted
in full on the reverse of this leaﬂet.

How can a lobbyist manipulate government agencies
to stop a federal law in its tracks?

The NABR is the brainchild of the biggest supplier of
laboratory animals in the world, Charles River, Inc., now
owned by the industrial conglomerate, Bausch and Lomb.
The more animals are used the more money they make.
They are marketed with slick advertising techniques de—
signed to sell laboratories the maximum numbers. Frankie
Trull, the Executive Director, tells how NABR was cre-
ated in her living room when she was working for Char—
les River. Now, commercial animal dealer inﬂuence is a
driving force that has been able to dictate ofﬁcial corre-

This is a douroculi
monkey, the species
that figured in a
recent case of
government fraud.
Bolivia, where the
monkeys were
captured, demanded
their return, but the
American dealer,
though his passport
had been conﬁscated,
ﬂed the country.

Ernest Walker

 

spondence from the Office of Science and Technology
Policy and policy at the National Institutes of Health.
Under NABR’s inﬂuence, the Office of Management
and Budget (OMB) not content with years of delay, has
even drawn up a schedule to waste 35 more months before
final regulations on the 1985 law are issued. The Depart-
ment of Agriculture cannot easily ignore the arrogant
“advice” of OMB. That would bring us to 1993, possibly
a record in delaying tactics to undermine the will of
Congress and ﬂout the wishes of the American people.
Former OMB counsel Michael Horowitz has been
successful in gutting the regulations by changing the regu-
latory approach of the Department of Agriculture. NABR
has been insisting that the regulations be rewritten into
“performance standards”, vaguely worded regulations

 

which are generally unenforce-
able. The Ofﬁce of Science and
Technology Policy for the White
House, whose biomedical re-
search desk is manned by
Frankie Trull friend and former
NIH chief, James Wyngaarden,
issued a letter on the regulations
which repeats the arguments
which NABR has been using
since 1985, when the law was
passed. OMB ordered the re gu-
lations withdrawn because of
this letter. The arguments have
all been answered years ago, but

Ernest Walker

 

 

the facts have been overridden Mfﬁfgtaﬂljing
0 am

by NABR’s clout. J 1’ him:

NABR claims to represent caregiver

the ac ademic community and

many of the statements issued at

NABR events discuss academic freedom. However,
when a New York University professor was sued by Im-
muno AG, a huge multinational Austrian pharmaceutical
Company, because of a letter to the editor, published in
a scientiﬁc journal he edits, NABR submitted testimony
on behalf of Irnmuno AG. After a ﬁve year battle, the pro-
fessor was vindicated in the First District Court Appel-
late Division which found the suit to be without merit.
NABR then ﬁled an amicus brief for the New York State

Ernest Walker

Because primates are
our closest relatives
in the animal
kingdom, they are
used extensively in
laboratories. A
human hand and

that of Aqua
Inmates. the

dourocouli monkey.

 

Ernest Walker

  
 
 
 
 

A demonstration
of psychological
well-being.
Douroculis love
to leap and frolic.

     

 

Appeals Court which also dismissed
the suit. When the need for larger
cage sizes for primates in laborato-
ries is being discussed, scientists are
afraid to speak out because they fear
that their NIH grants will not be
continued if they disagree with the
party line that cage size is not im-
portant to the animal, which must
spend his or her life in it. NIH,
whose spectacular failure to pre-
vent cruelty to animals in grants
they funded led to enactment by
Congress of the Improved Stan-
dards for Laboratory Animals
amendments, is also fully behind
the use of the unenforceable per-
formance standards.

The animals who need the pro-

tection of the Improved Standards

for Laboratory Animals amendments do not yet have it.
There are no regulations for “an environment adequate to
promote the psychological well—being of non-human pri-
mates”, nor are there regulations for the exercise of labo—

ratory dogs.

Non-human primates must have larger

cages, live in social groups and have a varied environ-

ment to interact
with. Dogs must be
released from their
cages for daily exer-
cise. The U.S.
Department of Ag-
riculture must pub-
lish clear enforce—
able standards for
the care and hous-

ing of laboratory
animals, and the
USDA must have
enough funding to
enforce those regu-
lations.

ljtetoroe - Peter Hamllton

 

 

A dying rabbit denied the protection of
improved standards proposed by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. Increased cage
sizes were summarily withdrawn at the
insistence of the Office of Science and
Technology Policy.

 

 

Lileloroe - Peter Hamilton

 

This is not an
"environment
adequate to
promote
psychological
well-being. "
Primates in
laboratories still
wait for enforcable
regulations under
the Improved
Standards for
Laboratory Animals
amendments.

 

 

 

 

Lil loroe- Peter Hamilton

 

 

 

Congress mandated exercise for laboratory dogs in 1985.
But NABR lobbying has held up the regulations to this
day. Until the Office of Management and Budget releases
its vice-like grip on the regulations, dogs like him will
remain behind bars with no relief.

 

 

 

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
PO. Box 3719
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

 

 




ﬁnemies of the Animal Welfare Act have also sought to weaken the

resolve of the Department of Agriculture’s veterinary personnel

to enforce the law. The straightforward law enforcement under
the aegis of Dr. John Atwell led to his demotion . Evidently the
National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR) resented
prosecutions of registered research facilities who were found guilty
of violating the minimum standards of the Animal Welfare Act.

Capable and dedicated Animal Care Specialists ended up out-
side the program when the reorganization of the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service (APHIS) took place. One, who holds a
degree of Doctor of Medicine as well as Doctor of Veterinary
Medicine, is suing the Department to enable her to return to the work
which she accomplished so conscientiously.

She testiﬁed in the Department of Agriculture’s successful
prosecution of SEMA, a contract laboratory for the National Insti-
tutes of Health ($1.5 million in 1989), where chimpanzees and mon-
keys were held in substandard conditions. SEMA was found guilty
of harassment of Agriculture’s inspectors, having prevented them
from decoding information about the animals and even trying to pre-
vent them from leaving the premises with photographic evidence.

APHIS Administrator Bert Hawkins, whose morale—build-
ing encouragement to enforce the Animal Welfare Act made him un-
popular with the regulated industry, was stripped of his authority and

replaced by a series of
' officials acceptable to
NABR.

1 Dr. James Glosser,
T the current APHIS
3 administrator, asserts,
‘ “We need to take away
1 the enforcer concept.”
‘ ThestaffofRegulatory

2,, '. 1.1
hardy?) “M1“ .1‘11’11

Enforcement and Animal Care (REAC) is supposed “to lead people
into compliance,” he says. He enthusiastically supported the agency’ s
reorganization which reduced the number of animal welfare veteri-
nary inspectors for the whole country to only 42. The Animal
Welfare Act requires them to inspect 1,296 registered research facili-

ties, many of which have as many as ten or twenty separate locations.
They also, together with the 21 animal health technicians, must in-
spect premises of 4,415 dealers, 1,504 exhibitors, 282 intermediate
handlers, and 145 carriers. With the “enforcer concept” condemned
by their chief, the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
amendments and the basic Animal Welfare Act are doomed to tooth-
less inefﬁciency. How can a few modestly compensated veterinari-
ans and technicians be expected to “lead” an industry worth billions
of dollars “into compliance”?

 




Creature Discom forts

by Gwen Rubinstein

For the Department of Agriculture's animal welfare
efforts, delay is a four-letter word: O-l-R-A.

Find one sentence in a relatively obscure 1983 report of a presidential task force. (“‘Health, safety and environmental regulations
should address ends rather than means.”) Add one former OMB (Office of Management and Budget) official hired by an interest

group. (Michael Horowitz, once general counsel.) Stir. That’s the formula concocted by the biomedical research community
to scuttle federal regulation of how its members treat animals in their experiments.

At least 17 million animals are used in laboratory experiments each
year, according to Congress’s Office of Technology Assessment. About 85
percent are rats and mice; the other 15 percent are cats, dogs, monkeys,
hamsters, guinea pigs, and other common domestic animals.

Persistently bad conditions in laboratories led Congress to amend the
Animal Welfare Act in 1985 to instruct the United States Department of
Agriculture (USDA) to set minimum standards for the humane handling,

housing, care, treatment and transportation of those animals. But finalizing

regulationsto implement those changes has turned into aSisyphean task for
USDA. Each time the agency proceeds to a new level of review at OMB's
Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA), the same issues
surface to send it back to square one.

The proposed regulations were first published, under court order, in
March, 1989. But they had languished for nearly eight months of review at
OIRA. While animal welfare advocates viewed the proposal as only the bare
minimum, they still wanted to see something implemented. So the Animal
Legal Defense Fund (ALDF) went to court to force release of the regulations.

But now USDA is back where it started - again. In mid-April, OIRA
returned a draft of the final rule to USDA for “reconsideration" - putting it on
hold. OIRA’s actions came on the heels of a letter from President Bush’s
science advisor, D. Allan Bromley, criticizing the proposal, as OIRA had
before, for taking the wrong approach.

The stumbling block USDA has hit head-on is well-organized opposi-
tion with inside-the-White-House connections and knowledge of how OI RA
works. Problems first surfaced in September, 1988, or about three months
after USDA submitted draft proposed regulations to OIRA for review.

Animal welfare groups say the playing field changed when Horowitz,
now an attorney with Myerson, Kuhn & Sterrett, was hired by the American
Council on Education on behalf of member universities that use animals in
experiments. Also a member in the firm is Robert Bedell, who left OIRA in
1986 after several years as deputy administrator.

While few could argue with the act's goals of more humane treatment
of laboratory animals, the research community, with Horowitz's help, found
a way to deflect the discussion from that to something more bureaucratic -
the regulatory approach USDA chose. The successful tack taken by
research groups was to criticize the regulations as prescribing “engineering"
controls for compliance rather than describing the desired “performance"
and leaving it up to laboratories to determine their own way of complying.

The regulations “painta very detailed picture of laboratory animal care,”
complains an industry trade group, the National Association for Biomedical

Research (NABR), Washington, DC. “They tell you point by point - and that’s
what we object to."

To back up its point, industry often singles out the regulation’s require-
ments for exercise and socialization of dogs. The 1985 amendments stated
that regulations should set “minimum requirements for exercise of dogs, as
determined by an attending veterinarian in accordance with general stan-
dards promulgated by the Secretary.”

As a result, the proposed regulations set a minimum of 30 minutesa day
of exercise. To support that requirement, the proposed regulations noted
that “[t]he consensus of [agency] veterinarians with training and experience
in the care of dogs is that 30 minutes of daily exercise is a reasonable
minimum for maintenance of a dog’s health and well-being." (Federal
Register, March 15, 1989, p. 10905)

Despite the language of the amendments, industry groups claim that
the regulations are too specific. The agency “is going about this in a way we
call engineering standards instead of giving us desired performance,"
complains the NABR. “Our whole objective is to maintain healthy, behavior-
ally normal dogs, but how this is accomplished should be left up to the
veterinarians responsible."

In truth, however, the regulations do leave the specifics up to laboratory
veterinarians. For example, the proposal does not specify how dogs are
supposed to be exercised - only the amount of time they are to exercise, or
have the option to exercise. In addition, the regulations give several exercise
options as examples, but generally leave the details up to the laboratories.
“[T]he method or type of exercise be determined by the attending veterinar-
ian and may consist of one or more methods,” the proposed regulations
state. (p. 10905)

Nevertheless, both OIRA and the White House have echoed industry’s
complaints about the regulation being too prescriptive and detailed. Both
have also supported their position by quoting from the same page of Reagan
Administration Regulatory Achievements, on August, 1983, report of the
Presidential Task Force on Regulatory Relief.

In his April 16, 1990 letter to Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter,
Bromley wrote: “[T]he standards are engineering rather than perform-
ance-based standards and will be extraordinarily expensive. I am also
informed that there is no scientific evidence that the proposed standards will
improve animal welfare."

In the letter, Bromley urged Yeutter to reconsider the standards in light
of “the guidance of the President’s Regulatory Task Force, chaired by then
Vice-President Bush (Regulatory Policy Guideline No.5 at P 19): ‘Health,

safety, and environmental regulations should address ends rather than
means.”

In reality, Bromley’s comments did little more than reiterate complaints,
first raised by industry, then raised by OIRA more than a year earlier during
regulatory review. But they also halted the standards progress.

In a letter dated the next day, Acting OIRA Administrator James B.
MacRae followed up on Bromley's letter, noting “We agree with [Bromley’s]
concerns." But MacRae's letter also added: “With the apparent need to
obtain greater scientificjustification and validation for the regulatory alterna-
tive selected, it appears premature for [USDA] to have submitted this draft
rule for review.”

The whole turn ofevents completely frustrated USDA who have worked
on the regulations for more than two years, staff at the National Institutes of
Health (NIH) who were in close consultation over the regulation, and animal
welfare advocates. The events have also angered congressional sponsors
of the amendments. Forexample, former SenatorJohn Melcher (D-MT) told
Nature magazine that he had “never seen anything so misinformed about the
legislative process" as Bromley’s letter.

The case is also a sterling example of what can go wrong during OIRA
regulatory review under Executive Order (E.O.) 12291:

Delay.

OIRA held the proposed animal welfare regulations under review for
228 days, or the better part of eight months. Because the order sets no
deadlines for OIRA regulatory review, OIRA can thwart agency regulatory
efforts simply by not acting on them quickly.

Substantive interference.

E.O. 12291 does not officially sanction OIRA to second guess other
agencies over their substantive review regulatory decisions. After all,
Congress delegates rulemaking authority to agencies, not OIRA. The 1985
Animal Welfare Act amendments give the Secretary of Agriculture, not the
OMB director, authority to write regulations to put them into effect.

Disguising qualitative analysis under cost-benefit analysis.

E.O. 12291 requires that a regulation's benefits to society outweigh its
costs. This has allowed OIRA, in the guise of quantitative cost-benefit
analysis, to slow the progress of rules based on qualitative grounds,
including ideology.

One example is the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) now-in-
famous asbestos rulemaking. OIRA pressured EPA into discounting the
value of the human lives the rule would save to skew the cost-benefit
analysis and make the rule less likely to pass the test.

In this case, OIRA continued asking USDA for more information to
support the rulemaking, despite the factthat a September 5, 1988, letterfrom
OlRA’s MacRae to USDA made it clear OIRA’s bottom line - that it thought
the standards were too prescriptive. Yet, the letter directed USDA to
improve (i.e. change to OlRA'sliking) its cost-benefitanalysis by quantifying
“the indirect opportunity costs of the regulations on biomedical research.”

To do so, MacRae suggested that USDA “list the contributions of bi-
omedical research to human health safety that have resulted from animal
research and describe the potential losses to society when research costs
are increased by the regulations." But what he didn’t ask and should have,

according to animal welfare advocates is “how much it costs society when
data are incorrect because of mistreatment of experimental animals.”

During the rulemaking, OIRA also wentout of its way to solicitopinions
from other federal agencies, most notably the lnteragency Research Animal
Committee (IRAC, based at NIH). OIRA asked IRAC directly to criticize
USDA’s efforts, which also frustrated USDA staff.

USDA complained early-and often -to OIRA about the outside involve-
ment. “The comment filed in opposition to the regulations by the State
Department, which conducts and funds no [biomedical] research, dramati-
cally illustrates the kind of unhelpful reactions we can expect [this] to
provoke," USDA wrote in a September, 1988, letter. “We think your letter to
IRAC was improper and inappropriate."

In a follow-up letter written in October, then Secretary of Agriculture
Richard Lyng made the same points to then OMB Director James C. Miller
“I. “We believe that this initiative was ill-advised and will not advance our
common objective of development of regulations to implement the amend-
ments," Lyng wrote. The letter also criticized how much time OlRA’s review
had taken.

Miller was quick to respond - and put Lyng in his place, making it clear
that OIRA, not USDA, controlled the future of the animal welfare standards.
“[C]urrent resistance to fulfilling your agency’s obligations presents the most
serious delay in the promulgation of these rules." Miller’s letter fumed. “I
would suggest you instruct your staff to cooperate with mine, so that we
might resolve any differences within the Executive Branch. Only then can
OMB clear these regulations for publication in the Federal Register.”

But OIRA wouldn’t let up. It included IRAC in all the details of the
rulemaking. For example, in January, 1989, OI RA persuaded IRAC to
establish a subcommittee to “resolve issues in the proposed regulationsthat
are ofconcern to IRAC member agencies." Only later did OIRA inform USDA
of the meeting - and the decision.

The outcome of the final rule may also depend on legal action filed by
the Animal Legal Defense Fund (ALDF). In a complaint filed on March 14 in
the US. District Court for the District of Columbia, ALDF named OMB and
its director, Richard Darman, in a list of defendants responsible for illegal
delay of the standards. Also named in the complaint were the Departments
of Health and Human Services and Agriculture and their Secretaries, Louis
Sullivan and Clayton Yeutter.

In the complaint, ALDF charged that OMB, through EC. 12291, had
attempted to “thwart the will of Congress in enacting” the animal welfare
standards, as well as “delay the regulation's promulgation and implementa-
tion.” ALDF asserted that OMB’s actions violated the Constitution’s Separa-
tion of Powers clause by blocking “the express delegation of rulemaking
authority to the Secretary of [Agriculture].”

In early May, the Department of Justice, the government’s lawyer, pro-
posed to the court that the standards, at least for dogs and non-human
primates, be completed by February, 1991 . ALDF briefs in response are due
May 29.

From the Government Information Insider published by OMB Watch 1731 Con-
necticut Ave, NW, Washington, DC. 20009-1146, (202) 234-8494.
Reprinted by permission.

 

 




The Work of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation

from 1955, When Only Two Federal Laws
to Protect Animals Existed, to 1999, When Fifteen
Protective Federal Laws are on the Books

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation was founded at
the time of the introduction of the ﬁrst federal bill to require
humane slaughter of animals. Till then, humane organizations
had little success in obtaining needed federal legislation be-
cause they spent most oftheir efforts in caring for lost and stray
animals, and they were concerned about losing their tax-exempt
status if they did much work on legislation. Until 1977, United
States law specified that an organization could not retain such
status if it spent a “substantial” amount on lobbying.

Upon its founding in 1955, the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation registered under the Federal Lobbying Act and de-
voted its efforts entirely to passage of needed laws. From 1955
on, it worked intensively to obtain enactment of the following
major federal legislation. Note that nine strengthening amend-
ments have been passed over the years. The Society continues
to seek improvements in existing laws.

19 58 The ﬁrst federal Humane Slaughter Act was passed, re-
quiring all packers selling to the US government to pro-
‘vide anesthetization or instant stunning by mechanical
or electrical means prior to slaughter for all animals in all
their plants except for kosher slaughter. The law covered
80% of animals slaughtered. (See 1978 for broadening
and strengthening of the law.)

1959 The Wild Horse Act passed. It prohibits poisoning of
waterholes where wild horses and burros drink and use
of aircraft to round the horses up for sale to slaughter-
houses.

1966 The Laboratory Animal Welfare Act was passed after years of
work. It set minimum standards of care and housing for dogs,
cats, primates, rabbits, hamsters and guinea pigs in the pre-
mises of animal dealers and laboratories and identification of
dogs and cats to prevent theft. Dealers are licensed, laborato-
ries registered. (See 1970, 1976, 1985 and 1990 for broadening
and strengthening of the law.)

The Endangered Species Act was passed, providing for listing
by the Secretary of Interior of threatened species and endan-
gered species and prohibiting importation of the latter

for commercial purposes. (See 1973 for strengthening of
the law.)

1970 A measure to prohibit soring of Tennessee Walking
Horses for show purposes was passed. (See 1976 for
amendments.)

Legislation to extend the protection of the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act to all species of warm-blooded ani-
mals, throughout their stay in the laboratory and in the
wholesale pet and exhibition trades as well, was passed
unanimously by both Houses of Congress. The bill was
renamed the Animal Welfare Act.

197 1 A law was passed to provide a criminal penalty for shooting
animals and birds from aircraft.

A second law to protect wild horses was passed.

Resolutions passed by both Houses of Congress re-
quested the Secretary of State to call for a ten-year inter-
national moratorium on commercial whaling.

1972 Based on the adoption ofthe 1971 resolutions, the United
States delegation to the Stockholm Conference on the
Human Environment proposed the moratorium on com-
mercial whaling, and it was adopted by a 53-0 vote.

The Society worked for passage ofthe Marine Mammal
Protection Act, which prohibits killing, taking or harass-
ing of any marine mammal without a permit and bans
importation of any part or product of a nursing marine
mammal or its mother. It sets the goal of zero mortality or
serious injury rate for dolphins caught incidental to tuna
purse seining. (See 1976 and 1992 for extension of the
law’sjurisdiction.) Resolutions in the House and Senate
calling for international protection of polar bears were
passed.

An amendment giving the Department of the Interior
power to enforce the law providing a criminal penalty for
shooting at animals from aircraft was passed.

 




 

Prohibition of poisoning of predators on public lands was
passed by the House but not by the Senate.

US action to protect endangered species was greatly strength-
ened: (1) the Convention on lntemational Trade in Endan-
gered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora was concluded in Wash-
ington, DC after 92 nations took part in a three-week confer-
ence; (2) to conform with the requirements of the Convention,
the Endangered Species Act was strengthened and broad-
ened.

Hearings were held against the poisoning of predators on
public lands.

1974 A bill which included authorization of funds for re-

search on methods of animal birth control was passed

by the House and Senate but vetoed by the Presi-

dent; nine days of hearings were held on legislation

to regulate air shipment of animals; oversight hear-

ings were held in the Senate to strengthen the Horse
Protection Act. Continued efforts were made to enact legisla-
tion against the poisoning of predators. The Executive Order
banning predator poisoning on public lands was threatened
and had to be forcefully defended.

1 97 5 The Executive Order on predator poisoning was modiﬁed to

provide for experimental use of cyanide with a view to de-
veloping a cyanide collar for sheep to kill only predators
actually attacking sheep.

Hearings were held on legislation to restrict the cruel steelj aw
leghold trap and on a bill to invoke economic sanctions
against whalers. The Senate passed a bill substantially
strengthening the Horse Protection Act of 1970.

1976 The Animal Welfare Act was broadened to: (1) regulate car-

riers, intermediate handlers, and animal brokers, requiring
them to adhere to humane standards; (2) specify that all
dogs - including dogs for hunting, security, or breeding
purposes be protected by the Act; (3) prohibit COD trans-
portation of animals unless the shipper guarantees payment
of round—trip fare and costs for care of animals not claimed
at destination. Also, animals cannot be transported at an
age less than the Secretary of Agriculture permits; and deal-
ers, exhibitors, auction sale operators, and Federal, State
and Local agencies are required to obtain a veterinarian’s
certiﬁcate before delivering animals for transporta-
tion affecting commerce; (4) extend the Secretary’s
investigative authority to intermediate handlers and
carriers and authorize a civil penalty of up to $1,000
for each violation of the humane standards; (5) im-
pose a uniform civil penalty of up to $1,000 on all
persons regulated under the statute, and eliminate
the requirement that the Secretary issue a
cease-and—desist order before imposing a civil pen-
alty on research facilities; (6) make it a crime pun-
ishable by ﬁne and imprisonment knowingly to
sponsor, participate in, transport in interstate com-
merce, or use the mails to promote ﬁghts between
dogs or other mammals or between cocks, except
where state law permits it; (7) require all government agen-
cies - including the Army, Air Force, and National Institutes
of Health - using laboratory animals to show that they are
fully in compliance with the Act.

 
   
  
  

Congress passed the Tule Elk Bill, providing protection for
a species found only in parts of California.

The Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 was amended
to increase its coverage from 12 to 200 miles, consistent
with the new 200-mi1e-limit law extending US jurisdic-
tion.

The Horse Protection Act of 1970 was revamped, civil ﬁnes

being increased from $1,000 to $2,000 for each offense, and

criminal penalties raised from a maximum ﬁne for ﬁrst of-

fenders of $2,000 and/or a six-monthjail term to a

maximum $3,000 and/or a year in jail. A second

criminal offense can be penalized by a ﬁne up

to $5,000 and/or two years in jail. Other sec-

tions provide: authority for the US Depart-

ment of Agriculture (USDA) to seize illegal

equipment as evidence for trial; authority for

USDA to detain a horse for 24 hours for further ex—

amination; power to subpoena non-govemment witnesses

in civil cases; penalties for assaulting, intimidating or inter—

fering with federal agents; penalties for knowingly making

false reports or entering a horse in a show under a false
name. Authorization for ﬁnding was increased.

1978 The Federal Humane Slaughter Act was signiﬁcantly im-

proved by requiring that all animals slaughtered for meat
imported into the US be humanely slaughtered. Foreign
packers importing to this country must meet standards
equal to those required of US packers. Further, the Fed-
eral Meat Inspection Act was amended for all federally
inspected plants to empower the inspectors to stop the
slaughtering line on the spot if any cruelty is observed.
Slaughtering may not recommence until deﬁciencies,
whether of equipment or of abuses by personnel, are
corrected. The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
played a major role in obtaining enactment ofthis legis—
lation, which had been pending for years.

The Agricultural Appropriations Bill was amended on the
Senate ﬂoor to authorize use of funds for research on animal
birth control, but the US Department of Agriculture failed to
make use of the funds.

1979 The Packwood-Magnuson Amendment to the Interna-

tional Fishery Conservation and Management Act was
passed, providing important protection for whales and
other sea creatures. The amendment cuts a nation’s ﬁsh
allocation by 50% on certiﬁcation by the Secretary of
Commerce that a nation has not lived up to the Act. All
allocations would be stopped in a year if such nation
persisted in its violation, thus providing a powerful in-
centive for whaling nations to adhere to rulings of the
International Whaling Commission.

Terrestrial as well as marine animals were included in the
embargo sanctions of the Pelly Amendment ofthe 1967
Fisherman’s Protective Act. All threatened or endangered
species are covered in the new amendment so the Presi-
dent can embargo all products from any nation that di-
minishes the effectiveness of an international wildlife
conservation agreement such as the Convention on ln-
temational Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora.

15

11




The House of Representatives passed the Elephant Protec-
tion Act by unanimous consent and sent it to the Senate.

1980 Amendments to the Lacey Act making this 1912 statute en-

forceable and increasing penalties for willful importation of
wildlife obtained illegally in a foreign country or transported
illegally across state lines were passed by the House and ap-
proved by the Senate Committee on Environment and Public
Works, but blocked by the objection of individual Senators.

Hearings were held on an International Wildlife Protec-
tion Bill introduced as an amendment to the Elephant
Protection Act but despite support at the hearings by
every organization except the ivory dealers’ lobby, the
bill was blocked.

1981 The enforcement provisions of the Lacey Act were substan-

tially strengthened. Violation of the Lacey Act now carries
penalties of a maximum ﬁne of $20,000 and/or ﬁve years
imprisonment for each violation of the Act.

The Elephant Protection Act died without action.
The Endangered Species Act was reauthorized after a vig-

orous battle with special interests who tried, for the most
part unsuccessfully, to weaken it.

1982 The Marine Mammal Protection Act was reauthorized.

198 5 The Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act passed

unanimously. The new law which amends the Animal Welfare
Act was designed to minimize animal pain and distress. It es-
tablishes an information service in the National Agricultural
Library in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine
to provide data on alternatives to laboratory animals, help
prevent unintended duplication of experiments and tests, and
provide information to institutions for instruction of scien-
tists and other personnel in humane practices as required by
the new law. Each registered research facility must appoint
an institutional animal committee including a veterinarian
and a person unafﬁliated with it to represent the general
community interesting the proper care and treatment of ani-
mals. The committee must inspect the animal laboratories
twice a year and report deﬁciencies to the institution for
correction. If not corrected promptly, the US Department of
Agriculture must be notiﬁed for enforcement action, and
any funding agency involved informed for a decision on
whether the grant should be suspended or revoked.

Investigators are required to consider alternatives and to
consult with a veterinarian before beginning any experi-
ment which could cause pain. They must adhere to stan-
dards set by the Secretary of Agriculture for pre— and
post-surgical care, use of pain-relieving drugs or euthana-
sia, against use of paralytics without anesthesia and un-
necessary use of the same animal for more than one major
operation. Exceptions to the standards may be made only
when speciﬁed by a research protocol and an explanation
given for any deviation. Fines for violations were raised
from $ 1 ,000 to $2,500 and from $500 to $1,500.

1990 The Pet Theft Act passed as an amendment to the Animal

Welfare Act. It requires pounds to hold dogs and cats ﬁve
days before releasing them to dealers. The amended Act also

 

allows the US Department of Agriculture to seek injunctions
against any licensed facility found dealing in stolen animals or
placing the health of any animal in serious danger in violation
of the Animal Welfare Act.

1991 Final regulations for the Improved Standards for Laboratory

Animals were published in 1991. However, the Animal Legal
Defense Fund and the Society for Animal Protective Legis-
lation had to go‘ to court because the Congressional man—
date for “a physical environment adequate to promote the
psychological well-being of nonhuman primates” and for
exercise for laboratory dogs was not met. US District Court
Judge Charles Richey ruled in favor of animal welfare, but
the Government and the National Association for Biomedi-
cal Research appealed his decision; it was ultimately re-
versed.

1992 Three major animal protection bills were enacted in Octo-

ber.

The Wild Bird Conservation Act put an immediate import ban
on the ten bird species whose survival is most severely threat-
ened by capture for the commercial pet trade. It requires that,
within one year, importation of all species of birds listed by the
Convention on International Trade
in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora (CITES) be prohibited. The
Secretary of the Interior is empow-
ered to enforce the conservation and
humane treatment standards of
CITES, saving hundreds of thou-
sands of beautiful birds from terrible
suffering and death.

I

‘ By the end of 1992, one hundred and
six airlines had stopped transport-
ing wild—caught birds for the pet
trade.

The Driftnet Fishery Conservation
Act provides the US with the sanc-
tions necessary to enforce the
driftnet ban agreed by the United Nations that went into
effect December 31, I992. Nations that continue to put out
30-mile-long driftnets entangling whales, dolphins, seals,
sea birds, and every other living creature that falls into their
toils can no longer sell ﬁsh to US markets and their vessels
are now denied US port privileges.

The International Dolphin Conservation Act establishes a
global moratorium from March 1, 1994, on tuna ﬁshing which
kills dolphins; imposed strict, non-discretionary embargoes
and sanctions against countries failing to abide by the glo-
bal moratorium; established the United States as a
dolphin-safe zone by June 1, I994; prohibited sale, purchase,
transport of tuna and tuna products that are not dolphin
safe; provided $3 million a year for research on ﬁshing tech-
niques that do not kill dolphins. However, legislation passed
in 1997 has put this important law in severe jeopardy.

1999 The Endangered Species Act must be reauthorized by

Congress. Opponents of the strong law have mounted
major campaigns to weaken and undermine the act. The
Society is ﬁghting back to protect the act as it stands.

 




SAPL is working to pass the Bear Protection Act, which
aims at eliminating the incentive to kill bears for their gall-
bladders by making it illegal to sell, import or export the
internal organs of a bear as well as products containing, or
claiming to contain, these bear parts.

The Society is working for enactment of legislation to amend
the Animal Welfare Act to prohibit random source dog and
cat dealers from supplying these animals to research facili-
ties. Adoption of the bill would l)protect pets from being
taken by theft or fraud and sold to laboratories for experi-
mentation, 2) reduce the suffering and neglect of current
victims of the commercial trade, and 3) save the US. Depart-
ment of Agriculture money which could be used for increased
enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act.

The Society is seeking passage of legislation to end the
use of steeljaw leghold traps in the United States. Pub-
lished polls reveal that the vast majority of Americans
oppose use of these notoriously cruel devices, yet the
United States lags behind 88 countries who have pro-
hibited their use.

Our Record

Of the existing laws to protect animals, 15 were passed since the
founding of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation and, to a
substantial extent, because of the Society’s work. The two previ-
ously enacted laws are the 1906 “28-hour Law” protecting livestock
shipped by rail, and the 1948 law authorizing the US Customs to
prosecute shippers of animals if they fail to maintain reasonable
humane standards. These two dates and the 42 years between them
speak for themselves of the lack of action on legislation to protect
animals before the founding of the Society.

The Society prepares information for use by Members of Congress
and their staffs. It sends circular letters to individuals and organiza-
tions interested in animal protective legislation, informing them of ways
in which they may help, principally by writing to Members of Con—
gress or other government ofﬁcials and to the editors of newspapers.

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation needs your help to
continue its essential work. If you believe in protection of animals
by law, please give generously. Because contributions are not tax
deductible, the Society is always underfunded.

Society for Animal Protective Legislation

PO Box 3719, Washington, DC 20007

(202) 337—2334
fax: (202) 338—9478 email: sapl@animalwelfare.com

URL: http://WWW.animalwelfare.com

 

 

I wish to help obtain more and stronger laws to protect animals.

D Please add my name to your mailing list.

El Please send me information on how to remember the Society for Animal Protective Legislation in my will.

Enclosed is my contribution of S

. (Not deductible in computing income tax because

 

the Society for Animal Protective Legislation is registered under the Federal Lobbying Act.)

Name

 

Address

 

City

 

 

Phone

 

 

 

 




For Sale:

All God’s
Creatures

An Investigation of the Pet Industry,
a Big Business With a Small Heart,

and How You Can Help to Reform It

Reprinted from the September 1973 issue of

""“Wasningtinnian

MAGAZINE

 




 

By Ann Cottrell Free

You can ﬁnd squirrel monkeys huddled to-
gether, trying to retreat into the feces-
smeared walls of their cages at a Capitol Hill
pet shop. You can ﬁnd puppies sitting in
cages in the window of a downtown D.C.
get shop. At shopping centers around the
el-tway, you can ﬁn clever slogans, easy
credit, and almost any pet that money can
buy. And you can ﬁnd hundreds of
animals—destined for pet shops—arriving
on the conveyor belt along with other freight
at the REA terminal at National Airport.
Packed in ﬂimsy vegetable crates, many are
parched from thirst. Some die of it.

They are part of what the industry calls
the “pet livestock trade.” It’s not the biggest
business in the Washington area. Butits dol-
lar volume here, along with tropical ﬁsh,
aquarium-s, pet accessories, and. pet food,
makes a sizable contribution—about $50
million—to the nation’s fast-growing $4 bil-
lion pet industry. One Maryland shopping
center store sold more than $300,000 worth
of animals and pet accessories last year.

There are more than 100 shops here,
many selling mammals as well as ﬁsh, rep-
tiles, and birds. These shops—some of them
concessions in department stores like
Korvette’s—add thousands of new animals
annually to the area’s already exploding pet
population.

Cash registers measure what is paid for
them, but there is no way to measure the cost
to the animals. Abuse and neglect should be
measured by cruelty complaints, court
cases, and convictions. But many of the local
ordinances and state and federal laws for
animal protection are so weak or so poorly
enforced that they are no measure at all.

How do you measure the misery of more
than 30 puppies-wracked with distemper in
the back room of a Prince George’s County
pet shop? Or that of the German shepherd
puppy removed from a Fairfax County shop

by humane ofﬁcer Bernice Warrington? She
testiﬁed in court she could feel the rattling in
thechest of the pneumonia ridden animal. It
died soon after. Or that of another German
shepherd puppy who died ﬁve hours after it
was bought from a District pet shop? Its
autopsy, according to the animal welfare
group WARDS, showed that it had died of
slow starvation. Only humane society vol-
unteers at National Airport know the horror
of looking into as ﬂimsy crate and seeing a
half-dead whimpering puppy or a dog that
strangled itself trying to escape.

Many local humanitarians agree with Dr.
David Bromwell, administrator of the II-
linois pet shop laws, who says, “Integrity
has been replaced by greed at all levels of the
pet industry, including the breeder, pur-
chaser, pet shop, veterinarian, and even, un-
fortunately, persons who ﬂy under the false
banner of humanitarian.”

In the Washington area as elsewhere the
upsurge in pet population reﬂects not only
human population growth and its increased
purchasing power but also the sharpening of
mass merchandising techniques. This has
led to a 5 5 -percent increase in the pet indus-
try in ﬁve years.

Slogans like that of the Docktor Pet Cen-
ters (“Instant Credit—Pay as You Love”) or
the Pup Fair at Ravensworth' Shopping
Center (“The Only Love Money Can Buy”)
show that merchandisers are well aware of
psychological techniques. In large urban
areas like Washington, many people are try-
ing to recapture the hometown family life
they remember, trying to provide compan-
ionship for themselves and their children.

 

And there is the status symbol aspect
reﬂected in the cages of appealing Lhasa
Apsos and other purebreds. People buy

them for status and also are deluded into.

thinking they will become “backyard breed-
ers,” earning many times over their original
investment. Or if purebreds are too expen-
sive, you now can buy cockerpoos,
pekapoos, breagles,and sprollies.

What happens is that animal shelters are
glutted with fine dogs, a situation that
humane leaders like Betsy Kiernan of the
Washington Animal Rescue League, David
Scull of Montgomery County Humane So-
ciety, or Bettijane Mackall of the Fairfax
Humane Society say is traceable to the .pet
shops. To make the situation worse, people
continue to buy purebreds at pet shops when
they could be had for practically free from
shelters. Humane leaders think that spaying
and neutering these pets rather than breed—
ing them would help reduce the number of
animals—100,000—that are “put down” an-
nually in this area.

Few pet merchandisers have understood
man’s need for pets better than David
Dec, who in 1968 opened the Saint Bernard
Chalet at 1529 Quaker Lane in Alexandria,
with a breeding and storage kennel at
Bunker Hill, West Virginia. Who would
want to buy a ZOO-pound animal that costs
$200 to $600? Dec told a S tar-News reporter,
“How do you know there isn’t a market until
you create one and ﬁnd out?” _
Dec created a market not only with a local
store but also with a national mail-order
business through magazines like Life. He
PHOTOGRAPHED BY BARBARA HADLEY

Mi? :

stressed the heroic role of the Saints—res—
cuing fallen travelers in Alpine snow drifts.
He got around worries about the dogs’
Mack-truck size and need for exercise that
worried yardless customers: “Saint Ber-
nards are docile ﬁreplace-and-slippers type
of dogs—happiest when eating, sleeping, or
being loving companions. They can be very
happy in apartments as they tend to ‘know
their size.’ They like affection, not exercise.
People with big estates ﬁnd their Saints in
the house 99 percent of the time, often
watching TV. . . Shifting from his claims
of docility, Dec maintained that Saints make
good watchdogs with an “uncanny ability to
sense danger. . . . When you provide your
family with the security of .a Chalet Saint
Bernard you will know peace of mind that no
amount of locks and keys can give.”

Dec also offered “25 free extras” that he
claimed were worth more than $250, includ-
ing a ten-year written guarantee, a ten-week
obedience training course, and guaranteed
resale to Saint Bernard Chalet of any pup-
pies raised from the store’s breeding stock.

Customers ﬂocked in. But some of the
cuddly puppies were growing up, neither
looking nor acting saintly. There were re-
ports of trouble with American Kennel Club
registrations. One couple took Dec to court
because their pup grew up looking more like
a collie. Some Saints were given to humane
societies because they grew up needing too
much space. Worse, some of the “mighty
dogs with gentle hearts” were biting people.
New homes were hard to ﬁnd, and in the
case of the biters there was only one solution:
the euthanasia rooms of the shelters.

In October 1971 chief investigator Frank
McMahon of the Humane Society of the
United States received a phone call from an
employee at the West Virginia kennel. Dec,
he was told, had not been at the kennel for
two and a half months. The kennelmen had
not been paid and they were quitting.
Somebody had better come and look after
the dogs. McMahon, HSUS’s Phyllis
Wright, and Alexandria humane officer
Edna Cooke rushed to West Virginia, ob-
tained a search warrant, and in the company
of the sheriff went to the Bunker Hill kennel.
They were joined by Duncan Wright of the
American Dog Owners’ Association.

“We found three of the more than 100
dogs dead and several so sick from neglect
we had to have them ‘put down,’ ”
McMahon said. A warrant was sworn for
Dec’s arrest. But .Dec has disappeared.

Alimal T. V. Trainers Pet Shop at 704 Sev-

enth Street, Northwest, has been going
strong—except for one brief interval—for
the past eight years despite repeated com-
plaints from the public, the District’s pet
shop inspector, and the Washington
Humane Society. This is the shop the April
1971 Wasbingtonian revealed had been
selling—until the FDA stepped in~a dog
food containing the male hormone .testos-
terone, which is claimed to make male dogs
more aggressive.

Conditions in the shop, owned by Ed-
ward Tuck, angered several veterinarians
and humanitarians—including the
ﬁre-eating dowager of Georgetown, the late
Mrs. Frank A.'West—almost from the day it

opened. Dogs were tied up along the walls.
Puppies, kittens, monkeys, and birds were
kept in small cages. When Mrs. West ﬁrst
saw the shop a llama was standing in a small
pen. ’Also available was an assortment of
wild animals like ocelots, too. People ques-
tioned the electronic training devices and
“obedience” collars Tuck sold, as well as the
health of his animals.

Mrs. West sought the help of William H.
Cary, then associate director for the
District’s Environmental Health, and Dr.
Paul Romig, the veterinarian of the Com-
municable Disease Division of the Health
Department. She wanted a pet shop code in
the District similar to the fairly stiff 1963
Arlington ordinance. On March 2,.1966,
Cary wrote Mrs. West, “My sympathies are
all in your corner with respect to some of the
problems experienced at Tuck’s Pet Shop.
Dr. Romig has issued repeated orders to Mr.
Tuck and recently received assurance that
many repairs and operating changes would
be made in the shop. How well he will. keep
his promises is anybody’s guess at this time.

A month later the DC Veterinary Medical
Association passed a resolution noting that
“improperly operated pet shops are a com-
mon source of animal diseases and often
bring about ﬁnancial loss and emotional
upset to their customers.” The association
resolved that the District “put into effect
needed regulations governing the operation
of pet shops and thus protect the public in-
terest and provide forthe health and humane
care of domestic animals.”

The District Commissioners did pass an
ordinance on August 8, 1967, but it was
weaker than expected. It did state, however.
that “no animal shall be offered for sale,
adoption, or gift when there is reason to
suspect that the animal is sick or diseased.” lt
speciﬁed further that “no animal shoqu be

 




left without care and attention or without
opportunity for exercise for a period of more
than 14 hours.” But the Ordinance'wasn’t
speciﬁc about temperature and ventilation of
shops. Regulation of unnecessary cruelty
was left to the Congressionally chartered
Washington Humane Society to handle
under the anti-cruelty act of 1871.

Three times in the last several years the
Humane Society has presented complaints
made by its own agents and other witnesses
about Tuck’s shop to the ofﬁce of the US
Attorney, which is charged by Congress
with prosecution of the law. Much to the
complainant’s dismay, the US Attorney’s
office would not press charges. But three
times the Department of Licenses and Per-
mits has refused to license the shop because
of reports from the Health Department.
Tuck appealed twice to the District’s Board
of Appeals and Review, which has overrid-
den the denials and granted the shop its an-
nual license. His third appeal is pending.

In July 1972 a blanket of smog made the
95-degree heat even more oppressive, and
there was concern about the animals in the
non-air-conditioned shop. On July 22,
Humane Society president Mrs. Vaynor
McNeill, agent Reginald Robinson, and
police ofﬁcer S. H. Bennett Jr. visited the
shop. Here’s what happened, according to
Star—News reporter Philip Kadis:

Mrs. McNeill said, “Mr. Tuck, I request
you to remove those poor pets from the dis-
play window. They’re in unbearable heat
_ and should be removed at once.”

Tuck replied angrily, “You have made
your request, Madam. I’ve heard it and re—
fuse it.” When Mrs. McNeill reiterated her
complaint, Tuck said, “All of Washington
has the same thing today. It’s no hotter here
than anywhere else in town.” She told him
he was in violation of the District’s anti—
cruelty code and pointed out that one of the
animals was prostrate. He replied, “All you
see is a dog asleep.”

Finally Ofﬁcer Bennett was asked to ar-
rest Tuck. Bennett took him to the
stationhouse, where he was booked. But
charges were dismissed.

'Mrs. McNeill visited the shop on July 24
With'another police ofﬁcer, demanding again-
that Tuck relieve the animals. He refused
again. And again, as she was permitted by
the Humane Society’s charter, she re-
quested that the policeman arrest Tuck. She
also removed four puppies and three kittens
and sent them to Friendship Animal Hospi-
tal. Tuck was taken to the stationhouse, held
for a few hours, booked, and released.

On July 31 the shop’s license was sus-
pended by the Ofﬁce of Licenses and Per-
mits under the Pet Shop code.

Trial before Judge Milton Korman of the
DC. Superior Court began August 8, but
Mrs. McNeill could not produce her evi-
dence. It was all dead. The animals she re-
moved from the shop had been euthanized at
the suggestion of veterinarian Dr. Joseph H.
Mattare Jr. , with her approval. Dr. Mattare
testlﬁed that two of the three puppies had
dlStemper symptoms—fever, cough,~ and
eye discharge. The third puppy was “poten-
tially. incubating the disease.” The kittens,
he said, were covered with ﬂeas, emaciated,

and suffering from respiratory infections.

On August 1.1 Judge Korman‘found Tuck
not guilty of unnecessary cruelty to animals
and criticized Mrs. McNeill for being over-
zealous. The S tar-News headline read, “Too
Much Zeal for Pets Peeves Judge.” ,

On September 26 Tuck ﬁled a civil suit
against Mrs. McNeill, the Humane Society
and its agent, and the veterinarian. He asked
$200,000 damages for “false arrest, false im-
prisonment, destruction of property, slan-
der and libel and malicious prosecution.”
His case was dismissed without prejudice by
Judge Eugene Hamilton on November 20.
Tuck ﬁled suit again, reducing the damages
asked to $50,000. The case comes up this
October.

I visited the shop on June 26. There were
eleven puppies, ﬁve kittens and cats, and
two rabbits in cages in the window. A sign in
the window said “This window is aircooled
by four fans 24 hours a day.” Also posted in
the window was a copy of the Star-News
report of Judge Korman’s verdict. Inside
there were fourteen caged or penned pup-
pies of various breeds. One had thrown up.
Within the vomit there was blood and a
three-inch worm. When I pointed this out to
the saleswoman, she said, “It has just been
wormed and it is bringing up the round-
worms.” Tinges of yellow showed in the
white puppies’ fur due I was told, to a pre-
ventive medicine against infection. Behind
the counter were two leashed German
shepherds. A sign on the front window said
“German shepherds, $49 and up.”

Running neck and neck with Tuck in the
complaint department is South East
Pet Shop at 631 Pennsylvania Avenue,
Southeast. It sells dogs, which it displays in
cages in the front, but its main business,
both on the wholesale and retail level, is
exotics. Though animals like ocelots and
lions can no longer be sold due to federal
endangered-species laws, there still are a
number of “wild animals”-——monkeys, rac-
coons, honey bears—that can be sold.

South East is one of ﬁve stores that Roger
Reinhardt owns or has a principal interest
in. Recently a large ad in the Post- an-
nounced, “We are proud to say we’ve earned
the respect of the National Zoo for the excel-.
lence of our operation.” This surprised the
Zoo’s General Curator, Jaren Horsely, who
turned the advertisement over to Smith-
sonian lawyers (the Zoo is part of the Smith-
sonian). He commented to-me, “If anything
the word should be ‘disrespect’ for the way
animals, are kept at the South East Pet
Shop.” The shop has dropped references to
the Zoo from its ads.

I ﬁrst heard of conditions at the shop from
teenager Will McDowell ,- who sent me this
report of what he had seen there: “Smell .15
awful. Nearly. a dozen spider monkeys in
one cage with no bars, ropes, etc. Monkeys
hang from broken tiles. Wild mice running
around over and behind and in cages (espe-
cially ﬁnch cages). Finch cage is coated with
excrement about a quarter-inch thick. Three
dead ﬁnches in cage. Dozens of baby
caimans in a sizable cage with water drop-
ping into it from ceiling, but this water
didn’t collect in the pool provided so they

had no place to swim. One dead turtle
ﬂoating in a tank. A decaying boa constrictor
lay in a cage with two live ones.”

When I visited the shop I found substan-
tially the same conditions McDowell de-
scribed. One spider monkey cried and
whimpered, hugging‘its knees and rocking
back and forth. It licked the shelf of the cage
trying to get water; the water container was
empty. When I returned the next day the
container was still empty. I bought the mon-
key with money partly provided by friends I
had told about it. It cost $85. Phyllis Wright,
director of the National Humane Education
Center, provided a home for it.

Later, when I asked chief pet shop inspec-
tor Romig why he permitted the situation at
this shop, he replied, “I have told him
[Reinhardt] many times he must clean up
and improve the place, but he tells me h0w
hard it is to get proper help. I think he is
going to improve, but I don’t get over there
very often.” When I visited the shop with

Dr. Romig he gave Reinhardt further in-
structions about cleaning up. Soon after-
ward a light and attractive area was ﬁtted up
for some birds. But others remain in their
dark and often dirty cages. The Humane
Society’s Mrs. McNeill, after many com-
plaints, met with Reinhardt at the US
Attorney’s office and asked him to improve
conditions—or else.

Humanitarians had hoped that as a pet
wholesaler and dealer in exotics South East
Pet Shop would not be licensed without
marked improvement. But it was licensed in
August 1972 and has been inspected period—
ically. Federal standards—which apply to
dealers of exotic animals—are not as strin-
gent as those in the District. According to
Washington Humane Society inspector
Mark Kimbrell, complaints about South
East Pet Shop continue.

he Department of Agriculture deﬁnes

“exotics” or “non-pet animals” as those
“which as adults in captivity require special
conditions to provide safety in handling.”
That deﬁnition includes all types of pri—
mates, if Agric'ulture’s criteria of safety are
applied by the Interior Department, the day
of the imported monkey may soon be at an

end. The Department of the Interior does

’plan to enforce more strictly the 73-
year-old Lacey Act, which forbids im-
portation of foreign wildlife that is detrimen-
tal to public health and safety, agriculture,

and the environment.

The Agriculture Department’s non-pet
safety standards also should be applied to
American “wild animals” like skunks and
raccoons that are being sold in retail shops.
Some USDA ofﬁcals admit this should be
done. Few native animals like raccoons come
into area pet shops from Maryland and
Virginia—those states have laws forbidding
the sale of indigenous gameanimals. So the
shops get them from out-of—state wild-
animal and game farms.

One wild animal that’s gaining in popular-
ity, according to Gaithersburg’s Janet
Coyle, who nurses and rehabilitates wildlife
for the Montgomery County Humane Soci-
ety, is the unscented skunk. She warns
against buying skunks because an unscented

 

 




animal shouldn’t be returned to the, wilds
when its owner tires of it: Its main defense
has been taken away. Also, there’s a high
incidence of rabies among skunks.

Still, some shops continue to push wild
animal sales; a clerk. quipped to me, “\A’anna
buy a raccoon? \Vhen you get tired. of it you
can eat it.” One way to end retail sales of
native wild animals like skunks, foxes, and
groundhogs would be to write to Members
of Congress and Secretary of Agriculture
Earl Butz. Point out that many of these crea~
tures “require special conditions to provide
safety in handling,” USDA’s rationale for
classifying bobcats and wolves in the wild
animal non—pet category.

Birds now can’t be imported into the
United States at all. That’s an important
change: In recent years millions of birds
were imported for sale in dimestores and pet
shops, many arriving dead. The federal ban
is the result of an outbreak of a contagious
respiratory illness called Newcastle disease,
which spread from a shipment of imported
birds to thousands of chickens in Southern
California. The ban has led to frantic domes-
tic breeding of parakeets, canaries, and
mynah birds for sale to pet shops and has
pushed up the prices on pre—ban parrots and
macaws. The Department of Agriculture
talks of setting up quarantine stations at
ports of entry and providing other
safeguards if birds are to be imported again.

Pet shops selling tiny green imported tur-
tles are losing money because of salmonella
poisoning. Maryland Secretary of Health
Dr. Neil Solomon reports that salmonella
cases in his state due to diseased turtles have
been running about 2,000 cases annually.
Now because of federal and state laws these
turtles can be sold only if health certiﬁcates
are obtained at'the point of origin and state of
entry.

Another part of the pet trade that could be
hurt by tightening of import laws are dealers
in tropical ﬁsh. There are at least one billion
tropical ﬁsh swimming in fluorescent-
lighted ﬁltered tanks in American homes and
offices. One of the largest distributors in the
nation is Cappets at 4630 Eisenhower
Boulevard in Alexandria. For all the dealers,
exotic imported ﬁsh are the big sellers, and
no one knows which are detrimental to man
or the environment. “We learned too late
about some of the ﬁsh,” says Earl Bassinger
of the Department of the Interior’s Bureau of
Sports Fisheries and Wildlife, pointing to
the popular examples of the ﬁsh-eating
piranhas and the walking catﬁsh. Bassinger
also is worried about the water the ﬁsh are
imported in—at least six million gallons
from places like Hong Kong: “Who knows
what larvae and other micro-organisms are
in that water that eventually ﬁnds its way to
our rivers?” In addition there is the problem
of ﬁshbite, mostly from saltwater ﬁsh,
which according to Alan Levitt, public in-
formation director of the National
Aquarium, is a growing one. All these things
are leading to the tightening of the Lacey Act
by the Interior Department, which might
cut the sales of exotic ﬁsh.

But for most pet shops the big sellers——
besides ﬁsh—are puppies, puppies,

puppies. Most are turned out like doughnuts
at midwest “puppy mills.” Kansas leads
the list, with more than 600 mass production
dealers who have registered with the De-
partment of Agriculture under the Animal
Welfare Act. Some of these wholesalers con-
tract' to neighborhood farmers, who ﬁnd
puppy production a good sideline or substi-
tute for raising other livestock.

Wholesale prices at pUppy farms are low
in comparison to the retailers’ price. Here
are some wholesale prices from a Missouri
dealer: miniature poodle, $45; Pekingese,

$55; Pomeranian, $60; Dalmatian, $50; col-
lie, $50; Saint Bernard, $75;'Airedales, $45;
Cairns, $55; boxers, $70, dachshunds, $45;
German shepherds, $45.

Conditions at the puppy mills can be
poor. The Humane Society’s McMahon,
who investigated a Pennsylvania puppy
mill, reported, “This place had 57 dogs
—Pekingese, Doberman, collies, Chi-
huahuas, cockers—all jammed into tiny
cages. Most of the animals were covered
with their own excrement and there was
algae in the water pans. I asked how long the

 

District: Notify Dr. Paul L. Romig, Chief
of Animal Disease Control, Department of
Human Resources (1201 New York Avenue,
Northeast; 629-2794) for inspection of shops
selling dogs, cats, other mammals; Foster
Robinson, Department of Environmental
Services (801 North Capitol Street, North-
east; 629-3111) for inspection of discount

5 stores and others selling birds, ﬁsh, etc. Both
have authority under 1967 DC Pet Shop Code:
Part9, Title 8, Health Regulations, Chapter
4. Regulations are primarily public health
oriented. “Care and attention” required every
fourteen hours. Standards needed as to cage
size, numbers within cages, shop tempera-
ture, animal health care, frequency of inspec—
tions. Requests for strengthening regulations
may be directed to Mayor Walter Washington
and DC Council President John Nevius, both
at the District Building. To report gross ne-
glect and cruelty, notify Washington Humane
Society (1621 Wisconsin Avenue; 333-4010) or
the Metropolitan Police Department. Both
operate under 1871 anti—cruelty act, Title 22,
section 18, DC Criminal Code, which forbids
unnecessary cruelty and failure to provide
“proper food, drink, shelter or protection from
the weather.”

Alexandria: The shelter director of the
Alexandria Animal 'Welfare League (910
South Payne Street; 750—6597) is authorized to
administer the area’s newest pet shop ordi—
nance: Article IV, Chapter 4 of City Code. It
requires speciﬁc healthful and humane stand-
ards for all species, including horizontal

perches for birds.

Arlington: The shelter director of the
Animal Welfare League (2800 South Taylor
Street, Arlington; 931—9241) has been au-
thorized by the county manager to inspect pet
shops under Article III, County Code Section
2 13-16. This tightly written ordinance was
the area’s ﬁrst—1963—and contains speciﬁc
standards for care and housing and requires
that “every reasonable-precaution” be taken to
keep animals from being “teased, abused, mis—
treated, annoyed, tormented, or in any man-
ner made to suffer by any person or by any
means.” League is semi—official body due to
animal control contract with the county.

Fairfax County: Fairfax, with the largest
number of pet shops in the region, is the only
area without a pet shop ordinance. It depends
primarily on non-paid humane officers to in-
spect pet shops and to invoke the state’s anti-
cruelty law against suspected violators. It is
considered a misdemeanor if a person “tor—
tures, ill treats, abandons, wilfully inﬂicts in—
humane injury, beats, maims, mutilates, kills,
deprives of necessary sustenance, food, or
drink. . . .” Reports of irregularities can be
made to Fairfax Animal Shelter (3613Jerman-
town Road, Fairfax County; 691-2365 or

 

691-2367; after 4:30 P.M. call 691-2364).

What to Do” About Wrongdoing

Montgomery County: The animal control
section of the Environmental Protection De—
partment (6110 Executive Boulevard, Rock-
ville; 881—7972) administers Article III, Chap-
ter 76 of the Montgomery County Code. This
1971 regulation covers commercial kennels as
well as pet shops and contains fairly rigid
humane and public health standards. Cases of
gross neglect and cruelty also can be reported
to Montgomery County Humane Society
(8710 Brookville Road, Silver Spring;
585-2933), which is authorized to operate
under the State Anti-cru elty Law, Section 59,
Article 27 Annotated Code of Maryland.

Prince George’s County: The inspector of
Prince George’s County Animal Shelter (8 311
D’Arcy Road, Forestville; 336—3221) licenses
and inspects pet shops under Section 3-7, Ar-
ticle 1, Chapter 3. Animals and Fowl of
County’s Code of Ordinances and Regula—
tions. Standards of this 1969 regulation,
which established the county’s animal control
setup under an advisory commission, are
fairly good. Complaints also may be registered
with Prince George’s County Humane Soci-
ety (Box 261, Riverdale; 864—2434) and Prince
George’s Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (6525 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville;
927—1500), both operating under the state’s
anti-cruelty law.

US and State: Pet shops selling animals
wholesale or dealing in native or imported
wild animals must be licensed by the Depart—
ment of Agriculture under the 1970 Animal
WelfareAct and meet speciﬁc standards as to
care, feeding, housing, and health. For infor-
mation or to report suspected shop violations
in Virginia, notify Dr. E.C. Roukema (Room
204, 1444 East Main Street, Richmond 23219;
804/782—2774). For shops in the District and
Maryland, notify Dr. Ralph L. Hosker (Room
501, Hartwick Building, 4321 Hartwick
Road, College Park 20740; 301/344—4190). In-
dications that pet shops are selling any animals
on the Department of Interior’s endangered
species list should be reported to Division of
Law Enforcement, Bureau of Sport Fisheries
and Wildlife, Interior Department,‘Washing—
ton, DC 20040 (343-7481). State regulations
pertaining to sale in pet shops of native wild
animals, such as raccoons, foxes, or squirrels,
may be obtained in the District from the Law
Enforcement Division, Office of Corporation
Counsel (629—3854); in Maryland from the
Fish and Wildlife Administration, Depart—
ment of Natural Resources, State Office
Building, Annapolis 21401 (301/267—5195); in
Virginia from the Commission of Game and
Inland Fisheries, 4010 'West Broad Street,
Richmond 23230 (804/7 70-4974). General in-
formation on Federal and State game and wild-
life laws can be obtained from Sue Pressman,
Humane Society of the United States (1604 K
Street, Northwest, Washington, DC;
638-7330).

 

 

animals had been penned up like that and
was told, ‘All their lives. They don’t know
any better.’ 7’

Similar reports have been made by other
investigators. Some of the worst places have
been closed but the trade continues. No one
knows this better than Fay Brisk, lately with
Virginia Knauer’s White House consumer
staff. She often saw letters from people
complaining of the condition of animals that
had been air shipped. She looked into the
situation at the RICA terminal at National
Airport and was appalled. Under the aegis of
the Washington Humane Society, of which
she is a board member, she set up a make—do
animalport in a corner of the busy
warehouse terminal. Volunteers come in
daily to give water to thirsty animals, feed
them, and take them out of especially ﬁlthy
crates. In some cases they put the puppies in
plastic containers (for which the shipper
must pay) when the flimsy orange crates are
bashed in or too small for the animals. Vet—
erinary help is sought for very sick
puppies—ones that ﬁrst—aid measures can—
not revive from heat prostration, dehydra—
tion, or other shipping traumas. Things can
get worse when ailing animals are trans—
ferred by REA from National Airport to its
Prince George’s County Temple Ilills
warehouse, where there are no humane soci—
ety volunteers.

“It’s the dead and dying that get to you,”
Ms. Brisk said after a series of sick puppies
arrived. “None of these puppies had any
water in its crate. And one had been en route
for three days. Air shipment seems fast, but
a crate of puppies can be delivered to the air
terminal in Kansas City the night before the
plane leaves. If it gets to Washington in the
late afternoon or evening it often is not
picked up by the pet shop until the next
afternoon. That’s where we come in, since
REA doesn’t have the manpower to water
and feed the puppies.”

Just whose responsibility is it? The air-
lines’, REA’s, the shipper’s, the purchaser’s?
Ms. Brisk believes it belongs to all of them
but that the Civil Aeronautics Board has the
ultimate responsibility for strengthening its
regulations and enforcing those it has.

Airline Pilot magazine said in a January
article called “Live Cargo: Cruelty Aloft?”:
“The airlines, shippers, and air freight for-
warders had better pay attention. Regula-
tion seems inevitable. It would behoove all
to get with the program and correct the
deﬁciencies in the system that permit live
creatures to be tortured, maimed, and killed
during air travel.”

There now are some signs that the tangled
strands of responsibility will be straightened
out. On July 10 the CAB announced that it is
gathering data for a thorough investigation.
REA has issued instructions to its regional
managers not to accept shipments “until the
quality of the dogs and the quality of the
kennels is improved.” In late July Senator
Howard Baker took time out from the
Watergate hearings to introduce a bill calling
on the Department of Transportation and
CAB to make a 60-day study of animal

transportationproblems. Most signiﬁcant
are the expected September 25—27 hear-
ings of Congressman Floyd Hick's special

studies subcommittee. of the House (lov-
ernment Operations Committee.

fter the animals—mostly puppies—are
picked up by pet shop messengers or
delivered by RICA trucks they are popped
into their cages in places like the ﬁve Docktor
pet centers, the four l’et Mart shops, and
others around the Beltway. Care and ban-
dling varies tremendously. Many complaints
come into the Fairfax County humane or-
ganizations about conditions in some shops
there. Fairfax is the areas only jurisdiction
without a pet shop ordinance.

Some stores, like Springﬁeld’s l’et Center
have more compassion and more business
sense than others. They keep their pets in
large solid-bottomed cages, frequently
changing their papers, petting and talking to
them, and giving them exercise. Many other
shops do not meet these standards of care or
of honoring health warranties or delivering
honest pedigree papers. The American
Kennel Club regularly runs classiﬁed ads
warning about fraudulent papers. .\ check of
consumer agencies and area Better Business
Bureaus reveals a number of complaints.

Poor care of puppies can cause many prob-
lems. Their health is affected by weaning
and shipping age and innoculations for dis-
temper, hepatitis, and leptospirosis. The
three—shot series can be given before the pup
is eight weeks old—the age of many around
the Beltway. But many careful breeders be-
lieve in holding their puppies until they are
twelve weeks old, giving the shots at inter—
vals before then. Also, they add tender lov—
ing care during this psychologically vulner-
able period to avoid problems such as shy—
ness, aggressiveness, and constant barking
that can come from pushing a puppy out too
early into the caged world of the pet shop.
Close contact with veterinarians is advised.

lnhumane and bad business practices in
some shops work hardship on the good ones,
says Jim Maddox, the proprietor of the
Bethesda Fish Nest. “I keep telling the
others to shape up. were our own worst
enemy. I can’t get them to listen.”

But the bad pet shop conditions like those
described here are found in nearly every

 

Buying a Pet

Before you buy a pet you should consider the
time, money, and know—how needed to care
for it, as well as the room you have to keep it.
And you should consider having it neutered to
help reduce the pet population explosion.

Local humane societies can give you infor-
mation about getting and caring for pets, and
most of them have ﬁne animals to adopt. You
can get a list'of local dog breed clubs from
National Capitol Kennel Club secretary
Velma Agnew, 6611 Old Branch Avenue,
Camp Springs, Maryland 20031
(301/449—8040). Lists of dog breeders also are
available from the American Kennel Club, 51
Madison Avenue, New York 10010. For in-
formation on cat breeders write the Cat Fan-
ciers” Association, PO Box 430, Red Bank,
New Jersey 07701.

If you have trouble with registration papers
contact the American Kennel Club for dogs
and the Cat Fanciers Association for cats.
Other problems—like health warranties—can
be directed to the Better Business Bureau and
other consumer agencies.

 

 

 

state. Consequently there is a push in at least
a dozen states toward tightening up pet shop
regulations, and especially regulations on
the sale of wild animals. For example, two
strong bills were introduced in the last ses-
sions of both the Virginia and Maryland
legislatures. Recently, in testimony before
the DC City Council’s environmental com-
mittee, leaders of the Washington Humane
Society and the Washington Animal Rescue
League. asked for a stronger pet shop ordi-
nance. Several regulatory bills that would
affect the pet trade are pending‘in Congress.

These legislative rumblings have not been
wasted on the pet industry. About two years
ago the Pet lndustryJoint Advisory Council
was established to focus on common prob-
lems and keep an eye on legislation. The
anxiety about any legislation is reﬂected in
each issue of the two major pet industry
magazines, l’crs/Supp/ies/Marketing and Pet
Age, which list proposed laws in state legisla-
ture and the Congress.

l’aul Setzer, I’Szll editor, wrote in March
1972: “I remember a few years back when
the industry was really booming. When
everyone sold as much and just about any-
thing he wanted. I remember how local,
state, and federal governments were not too
interested. There was almost no legislation.
No external threat to our business had sur-
faced. \\'ell, that scene has passed. Now one
has the tendency to wake in the middle of the
night, sweating, wondering what new legis-
lative adventure awaits tomorrow.”

The District’s former Republican Na—
tional Committeeman Carl Shipley regis—
tered several years ago as a lobbyist for the
.\d I loc Committeeon Pet Legislation. That
group seems to have been supplanted now
by the pet industry’s joint advisory council.
Shipley still writes a column for PSM, re—
porting on legislative and business problems
of the industry.

Although the industry continues to ex-
hibit anxiety over proposed new laws, there
are indications that they are trying to get the
pet shops to shape up. Not long ago they
worked with the Better Business Bureau of
New York to produce two valuable
brochures for pet purchasers: How to Buy a
Pet and Pet Guidelines. Their advice on
health, warranties, and registration papers is
sound and logical.

The Washingtonian suggests that the in-
dustry distribute similar pamphlets here to
shops, consumer groups, and humane
societies. In the meantime, citizens in this
area can speak up for animals by asking
municipal or county executives and councrl
members to require mandatory inspections
of pet shops and posting of ratings at least
once a month.

On the state level representatives should
be contacted to push for passage in the next
Virginia and Maryland assemblies of the
omnibus humane regulatory laws, which in—
clude pet shops. And on the federal level,
members of Congress should be asked to
move to amend the Animal Welfare Act to
include retail pet shops, animals in common
carriers, and all birds.

we need the laws to help the animals of
the big $4 billion business that too often has
shown its small heart. El

 




WHAT’S THE PROBLEM?

Snowball was once a happy pet.

A controversy exists over the treatment and
care of animals used in research laboratories.
The debate affects all of us.

WHAT’S THE SOLUTION?

This pamphlet seeks to provide an
understanding of the debate and promote
legislation to resolve the controversy.

 

THE DOLE BILL, S. 1233
in the U.S. Senate

THE BROWN BILL, H.R. 2653
in the U.S. House of Representatives

 

 

 

 

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
P.O. Box 3719
Washington, D.C. 20007
(202) 337-2334

 

 

 

 

Recently formed research associations with a vested interest in animal research have launched a mass media campaign

to promote the following myths:

MYTH: Animals are given surgical care com-

parable to that given human patients.
‘Researchers must take steps to eliminate any pain greater
than a pin-prick.’ (Stanford Medical Center brochure)

Federal regulations do not require the
F ACT: use of anesthesia if the experimenter
says it will interfere with the results of the study. Research

institutions are required to make yearly reports on the
number of animals subjected to painful procedures without

anesthesia. In 1982, 169 research centers reported 130,363

animals used in this manner.

‘Whenever possible, researchers do use
MYTH : alternatives.’ (California Biomedical

Research Association)

A 1976 independent survey of grants
F ACT: issued by three government research in-
stitutes showed that, on the average, only one third of the
grantees had even considered the possibility of using alterna-
tives to live animal subjects.

.7 YTH: care of animals are carefully monitored

and strictly enforced by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.

FACT:

Harvard Medical School technician told Congress:

There is evidence of considerable na-
tionwide laboratory animal abuse. A

‘I witnessed animals suffocating because of overcrowd-

ing Complaints to my supervisor were ignored.’

Neurobiologist Dr. Jay Glass, formerly a faculty
member of the University of Pittsburgh School of Medi-
cine, testified before Congress on the need for legislation
to ensure adequate anesthesia and surgical care:

‘The paralyzation method (giving animals drugs which
allow them to feel pain but which paralyze their capacity to
move or cry out) and others of equal horror are
COMMONPLACE IN LABORATORIES ACROSS
THE COUNTRY . . . the most insidious aspect of this
method is that since the animal is paralyzed the experi-
menter DOES NOT HAVE TO COME FACE TO FACE
WITH THE ANIMAL’S AGONY.’

Dr. Gary M. Williams, New York Medical College, ,

stated in a New York Times interview, 2/16/83:

‘. . . the evidence (that the test need not be done on
animals) is frequently ignored by people in a position to
expedite changes . . . people with responsibility often
lack the appropriate background or training and are inse-
cure in making needed changes . . . Anyone whose job is
dependent upon animal testing will feel threatened by
challenges to those practices.’

In the hospital laboratory at the University of Florida a '

newspaper reporter discovered a dog with an 1110181011
open and its entrails exposed.

Dr. Bruce Max F eldman, for six years a University of
California, Berkeley clinical veterinarian stated: ‘The
critical problem in UC laboratories was irresponsible
animal care.’

In a Christian Science Monitor interview, the head of the
USDA inspection team admitted that the USDA lacked
sufficient manpower to enforce the Animal Welfare Act.

The Dole and Brown Bills would:-

0 mandate pre- and post-surgical care.

require the use of pain-relieving drugs to
minimize animal pain and distress.

provide that euthanasia may not be unnecessari-
ly withheld from suffering animals.

prohibit the use of paralytic drugs without anes-
thesia.

avoid the repeated use of the same animal for
painful procedures.

establish an information service at the National
Agricultural Library to prevent unintended
duplication of research and to provide informa-
tion on alternatives to the use of animals.

direct researchers to at least consider the use of
alternatives and to strive to use the least painful
methods.

require institutions to instruct personnel on
humane practices.

require a representative of community concerns
for the welfare of the animal subjects to monitor
the care and treatment of laboratory animals.

prohibit discrimination against employees who
report animal abuses.

 

 

 

 




We are led to believe that the Animal Welfare Act ensures humane care for laboratory animals.

THEN WHY DID THE E‘F OLLOWIN G INCIDENT HAPPEN?

1. Snowball as a ‘research tool”

On the night of March 24, 1983, a medical student found
:an emaciated Samoyed collapsed in a doorway at the
,research facility in the Veterans Administration Hospital,

5 Palo Alto, California.

WHAT OTHERS SAY

‘The Dole and Brown Bill’s provisions to ensure the
humane care of laboratory animals will improve the quality
and reliability of biomedical research. Generally, research—
ers are too busy to educate themselves on alternative tech-
niques. The Dole and Brown Bill’s provisions for in—house
training sessions on alternative methods will facilitate their
choosing the most effective and most humane procedures for
accomplishing their experimental goals.’

Dr. Peter D. Wood

Deputy Director,

Stanford Heart 'Disease Prevention Program
Stanford University

Photos: Peninsula Humane Society

2. Legs ulcerated

The dog was shaking and coughing. On one leg, an
ulcerated wound had gone through skin and tissue, exposing

the bone. All legs were covered with deeply infected wounds.

In his right groin, a gaping six-inch incision oozed a

yellowish ﬂuid.

‘Balance between the protection of animals and the needs
of legitimate research must be the concern of the Congress.
S. 1233 and H.R. 2653 achieve this balance and they do it
more effectively than any other proposed legislation.’

Dr. Bennett Derby
Professor of Neurobiology
New York University Medical School

‘The scientiﬁc community would be well advised to show
good faith in eliminating unnecessary use of animals. If they
don’t do it themselves, it will be done for them by an indig-
nant public.’

Dr. Gary Williams
New York Medical College

Senator Robert Dole, R— Kansas, is the author of S. 1233, and
Congressman George E. Brown, jr., D-California, authored
H.R. 2653. These bills provide a moderate but effective

The student took the dog to an emergency clinic where he i

was considered untreatable and euthanized. According to
the veterinarian: ‘This animal was suffering tremendously
and was not receiving proper medical or nutritional
treatment.’

According to autopsy reports, performed at the clinic
and at University of California-Davis: . . . THE DOG
WAS SUFFERING FROM ADVANCED PNEUMONIA
AND DEHYDRATION . . . A LARGE AMOUNT OF
HAIR WAS FOUND IN THE STOMACH . . . THE IN-
TESTINAL TRACT WAS EMPTY . . .

Considerable media publicity led the VA to appoint a
panel of hospital staff members to investigate the incident.
This in-house committee concludes: ‘The research animal
had received excellent treatment until the time it was
taken from the facility by a medical student.’

(Campus Report, 5/11/83)

Failure of government agencies to avoid
duplicative testing by checking with one
another has led to a massive waste of tax-
payers’ money. The head of the Inter agen-
cy Regulatory Liaison Group stated that if
the agencies would coordinate their testing
efforts ‘. . . there would be signiﬁcant sav-
ings. It may reach BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS. ’

ANlMAL.
LABORATORIES

“ |
.‘b"o‘, !' .

 

 

 

means to make greatly needed reforms in the treatment of
laboratory animals. The DOLE and BROWN BILLS were
speciﬁcally drafted to avoid major expenditures to either
government or research institutions. They should be passed

promptly.

The DOLE and BROWN BILLS could help prevent such
incidents because they require institutional committees to in-
clude a member not paid by the institution representing
society’s concerns for the welfare of the animal subjects.

Surely, it is time for an indignant public to take action. The
research community repeatedly claims that laboratory
animals are treated humanely. At the same time, they lobby
against legislation that could ensure humane care.

 

 

WHAT YOU CAN DO

YOUR LETTERS CAN MAKE THE
DIFFERENCE

Please urge your Senators to co-sponsor S. 1233.

All Senators may be addressed:
Senate Office Building
Washington, DC 20510

Please urge your Representative to co-sponsor H.R. 2653.

All Representatives may be addressed:
House Ofﬁce Building
Washington, DC 20515

For further information contact:

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
P.O.Box 3719
Washington, DC. 20007
(202)337-2334

 

Prepared by the Humane Legislative Network,
a community organization working to bring about
responsible, humane animal legislation

 

 

 




Why They’re Our Friends

Beavers are kind and gentle animals. They
build beaver houses with underwater entry doors.
The mother beaver and her babies, called kits,
can go there for safety. Beavers like to work.
They are so good at building dams that they are
actually employed at times by conservation
agencies to do so. Beavers like to eat the tender
parts of trees and use the heavier parts to build
their dams. They are very good swimmers, and
to warn each other of danger, they slap the
water with their ﬂat tails, making a loud sound.

 




People who live in beaver country sometimes lot or large amounts of snow or ice melt all at
make friends with the beavers who come to visit once. '
them. A famous story about beavers was written The dams make the water ﬂow more slowly.
by Gray Owl. Gray Owl used to trap beavers and This helps keep the soil on the sides of the
kill them for their fur. Then his Indian wife, river from being washed away.
Anahareo, convinced him that this was cruel, so Beavers are always making their underwater
he stopped trapping the beavers and made passages deeper. This keeps the soil from
friends with them instead. Anahareo still lives in building up and clogging the river.
Canada.

Beavers do many things to help us: When the
beavers build their dams, they are helping us.
The dams hold back some of the water, but they
let some of it go through to the other side. The
water that is left behind the dams is used in
those times when there isn’t much rain.

The water behind the dams goes down and
makes steps in the banks of the river. This helps
to keep the river from ﬂooding when it rains a

Photo by: Hope Ryden I, B

L

The beavers eat a lot of the plants that could
block the river and by felling trees near their
houses they keep the forest from getting too
thick

Beavers also help keep the forest from
burning down when there is a forest ﬁre because
they widen streams and make ponds that
ﬁremen can use to put out a ﬁre.

 




 

 

Beavers not only make room in the stream for
their own houses, but for other water animals as
well. By making a stream bigger, beavers keep
water present when beaverless streams run dry.
This provides constant living conditions for
aquatic or semi-aquatic life such as frogs, fish,
turtles and snakes, and also helps deer and
birds who come to ponds and streams to drink.

The water which goes underground when the
beavers dig, raising the water table, gives the
trees in the forest the moisture they need to live.
As you can see, beavers are our friends and
helpers. We should help them, too.

 

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
PO Box 3719
Washington, DC 20007

 




 




Few people realize the terrible price in pain and fear paid by animals trapped for their fur.

In the following photographs , you’ll see step by step, the widely accepted methods iscard the ViCtimS ght by mistake
used to obtain wild furs. .

0 make a fur coat from wild animals,
catch as many as you can in steel jaw leghold traps.

B. Glam:

Pboto

Dick R wide/1

-
o

Pboto

E
Q .
U
”Q
§
§
\)
M
6
38‘
Q4

d stomp

Maybe the next animal won’t gnaw
his foot off to escape before you get there.

Daniel ] . Kelly

0!!

Pbot

 




hen the animals gnaw the
trap breaking their teeth on
the steel, the pelt still looks
the same.

Pbo 0. fan England

in
"Q
§
m
§
'3
o;
8
3
Q.

Pboto.' AS C PA

f you catch a dog or cat
let them go.

Their owners can take them to a vet for amputation
of their gangrenous legs.

You can help stop this cruelty. Write for a free information packet on the measures pending in Congress and
the European Community to end use of steel jaw traps.

Society For Animal Protective Legislation
P.O. Box 37l9
Washington. DC 20007
USA.

 




THE VIVISECTION CONTROVERSY IN BRITAIN
by Major C. W. Hume, M.C., B.Sc.

(1 his paper was presented at the Tenth Annual Meeting of the Animal
Care Panel on 29th October, 1959, at Washington, DC. (U .S .A.), and is
reproduced here with the kind permission of the Panel.)

Fifty years ago feeling ran high in Britain over Vivisection. In
December, 1902, Professor Bayliss was accused by Miss Lind~af~
Hageby of operating on a brown dog while it was still conscious, and
he resented this imputation so much that he brought an action for
libel against her. The court found that the allegation was untrue and
awarded very heavy damages, but the anti-vivisectionists did not
leave the matter there ; four years later they put up in Battersea Park
a statue of the brown dog in question with a rather offensive inscription.
The statue was connected to a watchman’s hut by an electric alarm
wire, and when a medical student began to attack it at night with a
Sledgehammer the police quickly intervened and arrested ten medical.
students. Next day a magistrate ﬁned them £5 each, whereupon
hundreds of students paraded the streets of London with an efﬁgy of
the magistrate, which they ﬁrst tried to burn and then drowned in the
Thames. During the next few days there were bonﬁres and processions
and more arrests of medical students. A correspondent wrote in the
British 1% eclieal journal that “ when a peace-loving student peacefully
defaces ” the statue “ with a hammer, he is doing . . . his strict legal
duty to his country and his king ”. One day after a month of rioting
a crowd kept 200 constables busy in Trafalgar Square from the after-
noon until 2 a.m., and meanwhile two constables had to guard the
statue of the brown dog day and night. The Home Secretary told the
House of Commons that the extra police needed to date had
represented one day’s service of 27 inspectors, 55 sergeants and 1,903
constables. Eventually the Battersea Borough Council decided that
they had had enough; the Borough Surveyor, guarded by ﬁfty
constables and three inspectors, removed the statue in the dead of
night, broke it up, and hid the pieces in his bicycle shed. Never—
theless feeling continued to run very high for a number of years.

The anti—vivisection propaganda of those days had two bad
consequences. (1) In order to win popular support it concentrated
attention on cats and dogs. whereas the animals most in need of
protection are the rodents, since they are not protected by popularity
and are the most numerous ; and (2) it caused tempers to run so high
that nobody could have any calm and reasonable discussion with
anybody else. Medical scientists developed a sort of persecution
complex that made them reach for a gun whenever the subject was
mentioned.

But during the past ten years a great change has taken place.
Reckless and undiscriminating allegations against scientists have
become much more rare and are deprecated by leading anti—
Vivisectionists, and on the other side of the fence Vivisectors can now
discuss without passion the ways in which their work could be made
increasingly humane. How has this change come about ?

1

 




 

 

At the price of being boastful, I will quote a letter received earlier
this year from the head of a cancer research laboratory, who wrote :
“ l believe, with you, that the climate is changing in this country with
respect to rabid anti—vivisection, and this is not only due to the work
of Lane—Petter and the Research Defence Society but is in large
measure a result of your own enlightened attitude. More strength to
your elbow and, through you, to UFAW ”.

i want to describe UFAW’s part in this change, but ﬁrst let
me say a word about Lane—Petter. When he became Honorary
Secretary of the Research Defence Society he cut out all the mud—
slinging and swashbuckling, and under his guidance that Society has
devoted its energies to simply explaining to the public what medical
research is and how it is done in Britain. Moreover, nobody has done
more for the welfare of laboratory animals than Lane—Petter has,
and thus he has shown that a research—defender can have a heart.
in fact he is defending research by the only honest method, namely
the removal of legitimate grounds for objecting to it.

In order to explain UFAW’s contribution I must say something
about the historic background. In Britain we have a system for
putting a check on cruel experiments, and this was pioneered by
Charles Darwin with the support of Thomas Huxley, Burdon Sanderson
and other eminent biologists of their time. Darwin said that the
thought of painful experiments made him feel sick and kept him
awake at night, and under his inﬂuence the British Association for the
Advancement of Science appointed a committee to study the subject.
In 1871 this committee made a report which may be brieﬂy summarized
thus : no avoidable pain ought to be inﬂicted; experiments entailing
suffering should not be used for teaching purposes; and, in order
that no suffering shall be wasted, experiments should be performed
only by skilled experimenters in properly equipped laboratories, and
painful experiments should not be repeated when once their results
have been validated. The same year the British Medical. Association
adopted a similar report, and a petition signed by leading biologists
and calling for legislation was presented to the Government. I should
like to emphasize this fact —— that the law which we now have in
Britain for the purpose of preventing cruelty in the laboratory was a
sequel to a petition signed by Charles Darwin, Thomas Huxley,
jenner Owen, the President of the Royal College of Physicians, the
President of the Royal College of Surgeons, and various other leaders
of sc1ence and medicine. It was based on the recommendations of a
Royal Commission which included among others Thomas Huxley,
then President of the Royal Society, and Professor Erichsen the
surgeon. This law, which we still have, is badly drafted and difﬁcult
to understand, but it left a wide discretion to the Home Secretary
and, wrth sc1entiﬁc guidance, that discretion was used to build up a
humane and ludicious tradition among laboratory workers. It has
done a. splendid 10b in the past, though the time has now come when
the whole system needs to be modernized in order that it may continue
to retain the conﬁdence of biologists and at the same time give more

2

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

assured effect to the three essential principles on which it is based and
which are absolutely indispensable in any genuine system of control.
These three principles are, first the licensing of experimenters, secondly
the Home Ofﬁce inspectorate, and thirdly the Pain Rule.

As regards the licensing of experimenters, there has been an
effective acceptance of the British Association’s recommendation that
biological research ought to be done only by qualiﬁed scientists.
Research consists of one part of experimentation with nine parts of
hard thinking, and we do not believe that if an amateur dabbler does
enough experiments and uses enough animals he will promote the
advance of science, though naturally a research team will include men
of various levels of ability working under expert supervision.

Licensing means, among other things, that we do not allow
children to do experiments on living animals. On the other hand
many British schools do indeed keep pet hamsters, rats and the like,
partly in order to teach pupils about the normal lives of the animals
and partly in order to inculcate a sense of responsibility for the welfare
of our fellow-creatures and to broaden the pupils’ sympathies. UFAW
has in fact published the standard textbook on this subject with the
title Animals in Schools by the veterinary surgeon John Volrath.
Again, suitable pupils get a thorough grounding in anatomy, and this
entails dissection of dead animals. But experiments which interfere
with the normal health or comfort of living animals are absolutely
barred out at the school stage. I recently had occasion to sound a
number of our most eminent educationists and medical scientists on
this point, and their opinions were unanimous and emphatic. They
were all ﬁrmly opposed to any experimentation on animals in schools,
partly on scientiﬁc grounds but mainly on ethical grounds. Our
feeling is that character is more important than knowledge, and since
many children pass through a sadistic phase a teacher must avoid
the risk of pandering to any morbid interest of that kind, especially
at a time when juvenile crimes of violence are increasing at a rapid
rate.

The second principle in the British system is inspection by the
Home Ofﬁce. The need for this can best be understood from analogy
with clinical research on human subjects. A clinical researcher can
become so absorbed in his project that, like Higgins in Bernard Shaw’s
Pygmalz'on, he will ride rough—shod over the feelings of his subjects. .

In a recent symposium on “ Quantitative Methods in Human
Pharmacology” Dr. Fox, Editor of the Lancet, drew a distinction
between the “ physician-experimenter. ” whose chief concern is to
solve a problem and whose vision “ is liable to become so concentrated
and limited that he cannot suitably take decisions on the patient’s
behalf ” and the “ physician—friend ”, preferably the patient’s family
doctor, whose consent should be obtained if the patient cannot under-
stand the proposed experimental procedure. If such an umpire is
needed in experiments on human subjects, a fortiori he is needed in
experiments on animals. To act as umpire in this way is the function
of the Home Ofﬁce inspectorate with their Advisory Committee

3

 




 

 

consisting of experienced scientists. When a research worker has to
decide whether some procedure is justiﬁable in view of any suffering
it may entail, he is almost inevitably biased in favour of his own
research; no man may be a judge in his own cause. He needs the
Inspectorate to guide him on the basis of established standards of
humaneness.

Inspection is a heavy full—time job and the inspectors need not
only tact and incorruptibility but also exceptional acuteness, wide
experience, great ﬁrmness and a strong sense of responsibility. They
must enjoy the conﬁdence of responsible scientists. And on the other
hand they are there to see fair play for animals, not to defend the
Govemment against ill-informed public criticism. If they were
inﬂuenced by political considerations of that kind they would be
betraying the trust which is imposed on them.

The third essential feature of the British system is the Pain Rule.
This was recommended by the second Royal Commission on vivisection
and sets a limit to the amount of suffering which may be caused in any
circumstances. In spite of all difﬁculties of definition and enforcement,
the Pain Rule does have a practical effect, and various cruel procedures
which are practised in foreign laboratories are not practised in Britain.
If I were to be asked : “ But does not the Pain Rule hamper research P”
I would reply, ﬁrst that even if it did hamper research that would be
no justiﬁcation for abandoning it. The pursuit of knowledge is not the
highest good nor does it stand above the moral law. As the Second
Royal Commission pointed out, the practice of torturing prisoners to
obtain information was abandoned not because it did not yield useful
knowledge but because it was immoral. Again, the lethal experiments
carried out by Nazi scientists on Jews and political prisoners may have
been scientiﬁcally valuable but they were morally damnable.

But has British research in fact suffered loss through this
restriction on cruelty? If I mention that no fewer than ten Nobel
Prizes for Physiology and Medicine have been awarded to British
scientists working under the Pain Rule I am not suggesting that the
number of Nobel Prizes is a numerical measure of a nation’s scientiﬁc
output ; but what I will point out is that a willing compliance with
the Pain Rule, in accordance with British law, did not prevent
Gowland Hopkins from becoming the father of biochemistry ; it did
not prevent Sherrington from carrying out his fundamental work on
the integrative action of the nervous system; it did not prevent
Adrian from elucidating the physical basis of perception ; and it did
not prevent D. G. Melrose from devising his heart /lung machine for
use in open intra-cardiac surgery, to demonstrate which a team of
British surgeons were recently invited to Russia. It may even con—
ceivably be the case that having to forgo some experimental techniques
has benefited the quality of British science ; there used to be a saying
in the Cavendish laboratory —-——“ We haven’t much money, so we have
to use our brains instead But all this is really a digression ; the
Pain-Rule restriction must stand, not because it pays to do what is
right and abjure what is evil but because this is a duty.

4

 

 




It is against this background that the work of UFAW has been
done, and that we have been able to convince our fellow animal-
protectionists that scientists can have a heart for animals after all.
I come now to the way in which this has been accomplished.

Towards the end of the second world war Professor Worden,
a biochemist and veterinary surgeon who had specialized in research
on nutrition and who, when. a student, had been Chairman of our
Students’ Council, volunteered to edit a UFA W Handbook on the Care
and [VI anagement of Laboratory Animals. This achieved immediate
success. At ﬁrst the anti—vivisectionists viewed it with suspicion, but
as time went on their attitude changed and they came to see that,
since experimentation will continue whether they like it or not, there
is everything to be said for making the animals as comfortable as
possible. On the other side of the fence research workers were quick
to see that this Handbook would help them to fulﬁl their own wishes,
by improving both the humaneness and the technical efﬁciency of
their laboratory work. This disan-ned the suspicion with which many
scientists had regarded UFAW', though some—«Julian Huxley and
E. H. Starling and the Editors of Nature and the Lancet, for instance ~—
had stood by us from the very start. This change of climate began to
make possible what we had always hoped for —— a calm and objective
discussion of the problem of vivisection, as opposed to the cut and
thrust of controversy in which each side has to make out as striking a
case as it can, and nobody dare concede a point or yield an inch of
ground.

When a second edition of the UFA W Handbook fell due we sought
the collaboration of Dr. Lane-Fetter, who is Director of the Laboratory
Animals Centre of the Medical Research Council and also Honorary
Secretary of the Research Defence Society. The work of our two j 0th
editors has won world-wide acceptance and, I am sure, is bringing
much beneﬁt to the animals.

I shall not describe the contents of the UFAW Handbook, because
in this assembly I am an amateur addressing experts on the subject
with which it deals. I only mention its publication .as'havmg been a
powerful factor in creating an atmosphere in which it is now possmle
to discuss vivisection in Britain without provoking a breach of. the
peace. We also distribute two excellent publications of the Anlmal
Welfare Institute of New York, namely, Basic Care of Experimental
Animals and Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Ammals.

Some half-dozen years ago UFAW passed on from .anlmal
husbandry to the far more controversial topic of experimental
techniques, and in the studies which resulted we have en]0yed the
Sympathy of both vivisectors and anti-vivisectionlsts.

In this task we looked for inspiration to the great pioneers of
modern British biology. As I have already mentioned, 1n 1870 the
British Association, on the initiative of Charles Darwm, laid down
certain rules, one of which was, in effect, that there must beno wasteful
use of animals, and this View was endorsed by the British Medical

5

 




 

Association. Thomas Huxley and the other members of the ﬁrst
Royal Commission unanimously , condemned what they called
,, purposeless cruelty ”, by which they meant not only “ experiments
attended with great pain ’-’ but any use of experimental animals which
was wasteful, inefﬁcient, or devoid of adequate scientiﬁc justiﬁcation.

Thus the founders of modern biology in Britain set their faces
against the notion that in science quantity may take the place of
quality; that large numbers of experiments with large numbers of
animals may take the place of hard thinking in combination with a
modicum of judicious experimentation. I do not forget that chance
observations have occasionally led to new lines of thought in science
but, as Pasteur said in his inaugural address at Lille : “ In the ﬁeld of
observation, chance only favours those who are prepared ”.

_ More recently, Piaget has found that in solving a simple

mechanical problem children under twelve tend to use trial—and—error
methods, while children over twelve tend to use their brains. This
fact suggests that the pseudo-scientist who pins his faith to reckless
and wasteful experimentation has a pre—adolescent mentality.

On the whole, British biology has tended to accept this humane
tradition of its pioneers. On the other hand it now uses possibly half
a million rats and some two million mice every year, and such large
numbers entail an obvious risk that an experimenter may begin to
think of animals as if they were things, as if each individual rodent,
with its own feelings and its own individuality, were of no more
consequence than a test—tube. The possibility that animals may be
used in unnecessarily large numbers seems, therefore, to call for
special consideration, but various other aspects of experimental
practice also need to be studied systematically by humane scientists.
Five years ago we accordingly appointed Dr. W. M. S. Russell, a
brilliant young zoologist who happens also to be a psychologist and a
classical scholar, to inaugurate a systematic study of laboratory
techniques in their ethical aspect. The ﬁrst overt result was a
symposium on Humane Technique in the Laboratory held in May,
1957. About 120 Vivisectors attended, and the Chair was taken by
Prof. P. B. Medawar, F.R.S. The papers were published by the
Laboratory Animals Centre of the Medical Research Council, and I
would be glad to present any member of this Panel with a copy.

A more recent event has been the publication of a remarkable
book by Russell and Burch entitled The Principles of H umcme
Experimental Technique. This deserves to become a classic for all time,
and we have great hopes that it will inaugurate a new ﬁeld of systematic
study. We hope that others will follow up the lead it has given, and
that a generalized study of humane technique, as a systematic
component of the methodology of research, will come to be considered
essential to the training of a biologist in the way in which spectrometry
and differential equations are to that of a physicist, or in which the
periodic table and the phase rule are to that of a chemist.

Russell has conveniently classiﬁed the problems of humane
technique under what we call the “ three Rs ”. The ﬁrst R is replace-

6

 

 

 




 

 

 

ment of conscious animals by unconscious material. Two outstanding
examples, discussed at length in the book, are the use of tissue cultures
(which we owe to an American scientist, Ross Harrison) and the use
of micro-organisms, but on the theoretical side Russell has a good deal
to say about what he calls the ” high—ﬁdelity fallacy ”. It is often
assumed that, because a given mammal resembles man in many ways,
it will also provide the highest discrimination for some property we
wish to test. But this is not generally true. For example many anti—
tumour compounds which are effective in laboratory animals have
no effect in the majority of human neoplasms, and the anti-biotic
cycloserine, which is active against tuberculosis in man and m viii/0, is
inactive in guinea—pigs and mice. Humane biologists who search for
non-sentient materials to replace live animals may be rewarded by
ﬁnding subjects with higher discrimination for some particular
property.

The second R is reduction; that is, reduction of the number of
animals required for a given degree of precision, and this can be
accomplished in at least three ways. First there is the economy in
sampling which can be effected by the statistical design of experiments
and is associated particularly with the names of Sir Ronald Fisher 1n.
England and Abraham Wald in America. Elsewhere 1 have called
attention to one famous experiment which used ﬁve times as many
mice as were needed to give a highly significant result, so that four-
ﬁfths of the mice were wasted. Statistical theory is still insufﬁciently
understood by some biologists, perhaps because insufficient importance
was formerly attached to mathematics in their training.

Another well-known method of reducing the requisite number. of
animals is to use genetically homogeneous stocks, and preferably F1
crosses.

A third and much less familiar factor affecting sample-size is the
psychosomatic inﬂuence of speciﬁc components in the envrronment.
Since Michael Chance found that the variance in a gonadotrophm
assay was drastically influenced by the manner in which his rats were
caged, UFAW has been sponsoring continued research under 1118
direction into effects of this type, in the hope that there may be other
speciﬁc causes of variance which remain to be identified and eliminated.

I now come to Russell’s third R, reﬁnement : that is, the modifica»
tion or selection of laboratory techniques so as to reduce to a minimum
any pain or discomfort that may be entailed. First there is what he
calls “ contingent inhumanity ” ; distress, that is, which can be
avoided if enough skill and care are exercised. Thus, fear can be
avoided by handling the animals frequently and so getting them tame.
Again, a blunt or barbed hypodermic needle can cause con51derable

* pain, especially in a small animal, whereas a sharp one skilfully used

need not do so. Again, to pith a frog humanely requires skill and
knowledge, and plenty of preliminary practice on dead animals.
Contingent inhumanity can be avoided only If the professrons of
laboratory technician and animal technician have their proper status,
courses of training, and tests of competence.

7

 

 




Next there is what Russell calls “direct inhumanity ”, that is,
the distress unavoidably arising from certain procedures. This can
be reduced and in some cases abolished as a result of systematic study.
The introduction of anaesthesia was the greatest step forward in this
field ; but if anaesthesia is to be effective it must be administered with
skill, knowledge and diligence. UFAW is sponsoring a research on the
neurology of. anaesthesia which is being carried out by Dr. Phyllis
Croft at the Royal Veterinary College with an electro-encephalograph.
She has, for instance, been concerned with the risk of unintentional
cruelty entailed in the use of muscle-relaxants ; she has found some
preliminary indication that urethane may merely disable the cortex
without disabling the thalamus, in which case its title to be considered
an anaesthetic will be open to challenge; and she has written, for
publication by UFAVV, An Introduction to the Anaesthesia of Laboratory
Animals.

Toxicity-testing is one of the main ﬁelds in which direct in-
humanity arises. UFAW is sponsoring in the Department of
Pharmacology in Birmingham the trying—out of a technique devised
by Dr. Michael Chance and depending on the use of fully—anaesthetized
mice. We must not count our chickens before they are hatched, but
otherwise I would express a hope that, as a result, very large numbers
of mice may one day be spared from a distressing death in the
laboratory. Another hot spot for direct inhumanity is the testing of
analgesics, and one of our Swiss members, Dr. Radouco—Thomas,
has devised and validated a test in which the intensity of the pain
inﬂicted is kept down to the neighbourhood of the threshold, While its
duration is restricted to half a second.

For a full preliminary study of humane technique in the laboratory
I must refer to Russell and Burch’s very remarkable book. I have
only sketched the salient points of our policy very summarily for the
sole purpose of explaining how it is that UFAW has helped to create
in Britain an atmosphere in which vivisection can be discussed calmly.
Scientists are willingly co-operating in the study of humane techniques
and, seeing that that is so, the leading anti-vivisectionists, while not
abandoning their ultimate principles, gladly welcome what is being
done and increasingly try to adopt a fair—minded and discriminating
approach to the controversy.

(Reprinted from The UFA W Courier No. I7, Autumn 1960. Published by UF AW,
(The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare), 7a Lamb’s Conduit Passage,
London, W.C.1.)

 

 

Courier Co. Ltd., Tunbridge Wells

 




IN PRAISE OF ANTHROPOMORPHISM

by Major C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc.
Read before the Association, for the Study of Animal Behaviour at
Birkbeck COZlege, 9th ] (1121me 1959.

The word “ anthropomorphism ” means, in this paper, the
practice of using one’s own subjective experiences as a method of
representing to oneself, by analogy, the subjective experiences of other
species of animals. The word “ automorphism may be similarly
used to denote the practice of using one’s own mind, by analogy, to
represent the minds of other human beings.

Some people, such as Konrad Lorenz, Hediger and Len Howard,
have an intuitive understanding of animals. Others lack that gift,
and may even be led to suppose that nobody else can possess it.
Moreover every analogy breaks down if it is pushed too far or is
carelessly applied, and the analogy called “ anthropomorphism ” is no
exception. For these two reasons anthropomorphism is under a cloud
at the present time, and my purpose is to point out that the reaction
against it has gone too far; that, in fact, what began as scientiﬁc
criticism has degenerated into quasi—philosophical pedantry.

A reasonable view of the animal mind has been expressed by
Sir Julian Huxley and the \Vellses in the following terms (1937):
“ It is a curious fact that the scientiﬁc mind and the activities of the
reasoning faculty are so frequently written down as ‘ inhuman.’
Actually this cold power of abstraction, this ‘inhuman’ reason, is
the one emergent property which the human species alone possesses,
while our warm human emotions we share with the brutes. There
can be no reasonable doubt that other mammals are subject to the
same kinds of passions, feel the same sorts of emotion, as we ourselves.
Our sheep can be frightened; our dog is glad when we come home,
feels something closely akin to shame when caught in some misdeed ;
our cats can experience anger and disappointment. But the capacity
to subtract eleven from twenty-four . . . to attach any meaning to
abstract terms such as space and truth —— this is all distinctively and
exclusively human.” The words here quoted. as denoting emotions ——
that is, the words “ frightened,” ” glad,” “ shame,” “ anger,”
“ disappointment ”— are anthropomorphic ; they are applied to
animals on the assumption that states of mind roughly similar to what
we observe in ourselves are to be found in other creatures also.

The Positive Evidence

(1) In the first instance we impute such feelings to animals
intuitively in the way in which we interpret the expressions on a human
face, which are extremely difﬁcult to analyse objectively (Darwin,
1889)

(2) This intuitive view of the animal mind is conﬁrmed by the
experience of persons who have to deal with animals in a practical way ;
of trappers and hunters who have to outwit their victims, and of

l

 




 

trainers who have to teach horses, domestic pets and circus animals.
The fact that these people use anthropomorphic assumptions, and do
so with success, is prima facie evidence that the assumptions themselves
are sound at bottom.

(3) Anthropomorphism is prime; facie justiﬁed in advance by
the fact that the human race is akin to the lower animals through
the process of evolution. Opposition to Darwin’s theory, arising from
contemptuous feelings towards the lower animals, is dead so far as the
descent of man’s body is concerned, but a similar sentiment in respect
of mental kinship seems still to exert an unconscious inﬂuence on many
biologists. Admittedly the fact that animals do not use a grammatical
language suggests that they are incapable of abstract reasoning, but
reason is one thing and feeling is another. The capacity for sensation
and emotion appears to have been a primitive, not a late development.
By remembering the subjective experiences which we had when we
were two or three years old, when we were less intelligent than now,
we can see that our feelings then were more acute than they are today,
and it may be that in this respect ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny.

(4) The behaviour of animals in response to traumatic stimuli
is closely similar to that of human beings. (Grindley, 1933). It consists
of voluntary movements such as writhing and, in the case of species
in which parental care obtains, screaming ; and of autonomic changes
of pulse-rate, breathing and the like, as in man.

(5) The nervous structure of the lower animals is analogous
to that of man (Baker, 1948). Nerve ﬁbres functioning in the same
way as sensory nerve ﬁbres in man are incorporated in structures which
are homologous in all the mammals, including man, and analogous,
though decreasingly so, in species of decreasingly complex organization.

(6) Appetitive behaviour differs from mechanical reﬂexes by
showing some degree of ﬂexibility. It is only in part that the pattern
of instinctive action is ﬁxed. Birds adapt their nest-building to the
details of nesting sites and materials that happen to be available.
Even an ant, ﬁnding her way home, will adapt her course to circumvent
obstacles.

(7) Many species have a language of some sort ; gestural in
honeybees, vocal as well as gestural in most vertebrates.

(8) The electroencephalograms of mice, rats, rabbits, cats, dogs,
monkeys, goats, sheep and cows have been observed. They are broadly
analogous to those of human beings.

(9) Anxiety can cause psychosomatic effects such gastric ulcer in
dogs, rats and other animals.

(10) Animals can learn or be conditioned. Learning, as distinct
from reasoning, is sufﬁciently similar in man and beast for the study
of learning processes in rats, for instance, to have thrown light on
learning processes in children, and to have been of value to the teaching
profession.

Experiments on learning often take the form of conditioning
by positive and negative reinforcement; that is, if plain English is
permissible, by rewards and punishments. In order to be conditioned
in this way, the subject must be capable of two different things. He

9

H

 

 

 




must be able to make a distinction between reward and punishment ;
that is, he must be sensitive to pleasantness and unpleasantness.
Secondly he must be capable of associating the signal with the pleasant
or unpleasant experience which constitutes the reward or punishment,
This ability to form mental associations we may rank as “ intelligence,”
and it is to be noted that intelligence alone will not make conditioning
possible ; there must also be sensibility. Thus conditioning arises from
a combination of two quite different factors, intelligence and
sensibility. There is no evidence, so far as I am aware, that intelligent
creatures are more sensitive than stupid ones, for the two factors are
confounded in experiments.

Thus anthropomorphism is justiﬁed by our intuitive interpretation
of animal behaviour, by everyday experience in dealing with animals
socially, by the theory of evolution, by the way in which animals
react to traumatic stimuli, by analogies in the structure of the nervous
system, by ﬂexibility in appetitive behaviour, by the existence of
rudimentary language, by electroencephalography, by the occurrence
of psychosomatic maladies, and above all by the ability of animals
to learn. In the teeth of so much cumulative evidence a heavy
burden of proof rests on anybody who would repudiate
anthropomorphism.

Anti—anthropomorphism

But there is a story of a countryman who, on staying at a London
hotel for the ﬁrst time, enquired about getting his boots cleaned and
was told to leave them outside his bedroom door. He was not, however,
to be so easily deceived. Thus forewarned, he slept with them under
his pillow.

A similar fear of being deceived besets many ethologists, who,
when they are obliged to refer to hunger or pain in an animal, write
these words between quotes to be on the safe side. Professor Pumphrey
(1952) has pointed out that ” when the accurate and proper use of
language has entrapped a zoologist into a statement that seems to
him heretical, it is quite usual to hear him apologise for speaking
teleologically, and he generally looks as sheepish and embarrassed
about it as if his bedroom had been found full of empty whisky
bottles.” Professor Pumphrey adds that a language has accordingly
been devised which is designed to conceal such inconsistencies from
from those who use it. Thus “ Man can see, but animals are photo—
receptive. Man remembers, but we must not say that an elephant
never forgets; to be objective we must say that elephants seem to
behave as if they were subject to a persistent mnemic hysteresis
resembling the behaviour of steel in an inconstant magnetic ﬁeld. Man
is capable of loyalty but a dog is conditioned by the association of
his master’s approbation with food. Man reasons from experience,
animals learn by trial and error. Man is swayed by emotions, animals
by ‘ action speciﬁc energy ’." ~.

Those who repudiate anthrOpomorphism in this way —— let us
call them “ anti-anthropomorphists ” for short ——seem to do so on
two grounds. - , -

3

 




 

Differences Between Man and Beast

The first is the same as that on which anti—vivisectionists claim
to discredit the use of animals for medical research, namely that there
are wide differences between human beings and other species, and
hence, it is urged, analogies between the two are invalid and mis—
leading. Anti-vivisectionists point out that the physiology of a dog
differs in many ways from that of a man, and that dogs and men
react differently to various drugs and pathogens ; and the argument
which is used by anti—vivisectionists in relation to the bodies of men
and beasts, is used by anti-anthropomorphists in relation to the minds
of these species. Anti-vivisectionists are so afraid of being misled by
a false analogy between man and beast that they abjure medical
science ; and anti-anthropomorphists are so afraid of being similarly
misled, that they will not write of “ hunger” or “ pain ” in animals
unless they put these words between quotes (in deﬁance, be it noted,
of one of the canons of literary style).

A fair answer to anti-vivisectionists and anti-anthropomorphists
would seem to be this, that it is wrong to condemn the use of
comparative methods merely because the analogies on which they
depend can be pushed too far ; and that analogy, though misleading if
used uncritically, has, when used with due precaution, justiﬁed itself by
results as an indispensable t001 of scientiﬁc research.

Thus, to an anti-vivisectionist it may be pointed out that the
cytology and genetics even of plants has thrown light on the cytology
and genetics of human beings, and to the anti—anthropomorphist it
may be pointed out that if a robin’s aggressive behaviour is released
quite irrationally (Lack, 1953) by certain releasers which include a
red breast, natural or factitious, and a robin—like shape, we can get
some insight into the subjective aspect of the bird’s responses from
analogy with the way in which in the human male the l.R.M. of
courtship is released by scarlet lips, natural or factitious, and a
Bardot—like shape; and in which in both robins and humans these
primary responses can be modiﬁed or suppressed as a result of learning.

Analogical Thinking

Perhaps both anti-vivisectionists and anti-anthropomorphists
confuse concepts with mental images, and hence misunderstand the
nature of analogy. The distinction may be illustrated by the following
example. A person with normal vision can form a mental image of the
world as seen by a person who is totally colour—blind ; this he can do
by abstracting from differences of hue, and imagining a monochromatic
picture of the world. But a totally colour—blind person, who sees
monochromatically, cannot form a mental image of a polychromatic
world; he can only conceive of it by analogy with the qualitative
differences which he perceives between sensations of some other kind,
as in the case of John Locke’s blind man who supposed that the colour
scarlet is like the sound of a trumpet, a very apt comparison. Again,
I ﬁnd it impossible to form a mental image of the feelings of a mother
for a new-born baby, which to me is a repulsive and even a disgusting

4

 

 

 




 

 

object. But if I say that women love these creatures, I am not obliged
to write the word “ love ” between quotes, and I am quite able to
attach a meaning to it. This word denotes a class of sentiments, some
of which I can feel though not others. Concepts of this sort are formed,
as Spearman (1927) pointed out, not as a relation between two
terms but as a second term when a first term and a relation are given.
Such a concept as maternal love is a member of a class deﬁned by the
relation, and I can think conceptually of members of the class even
when I cannot imagine them. Again, the amorous sentiments of men
are almost certainly different from those of women, but this does not
make amorous conversatiOns meaningless, and in communications
passing between the parties, even if these be ethologists, it is not, if my
information is correct, considered necessary to write the key words
between quotes. We can, indeed, use a mental image as a specimen of
the class determined by a concept, “ to ﬁx our ideas ” as we say. In
a proposition of Euclid we can visualize a particular triangle as standing
for all triangles, that is for the concept of a triangle ; and we can think
of a particular experience of pain, such as a kick on the shins or a burn,
as a symbol for the concept of pain. But it is in the concept, not the
mental image, that the generalization resides, even when the image
is a composite one.

Descartes, Ray, Locke and David Hume

Aristotle and Aquinas allowed to animals what they called a
“ sensitive soul,” as distinct from what they called a “ rational soul,”
but a notion that animals are automata without any minds at all was
put forward in the seventeenth century by Descartes against the
following background. Like many others, he confused Plato’s doctrine
of the intrinsic immortality of the human soul with the Christian
doctrine on a kindred subject, and wishing to uphold it he wrote (1637) :
“ I have dealt at length with the subject of the soul because it is one
of the most important ; for, after the error of those who deny God . . .
there is none which more readily leads weak intellects away from the
straight road of virtue than to imagine that the soul of an animal is of
the same nature as our own . . . whereas when one knows how different
these are, one understands better the reasons which prove that our
soul is of a nature entirely independent of the body, and that
consequently it is not liable to die with the latter.” Thus Descartes
had a reason for wishing to make as much as possible of the difference
between men and animals. He noted that even in human beings the
“ animal spirits ” have power to move the limbs, and so we see, he
says, “ how their heads, shortly after being cut off, still move and bite
the ground in spite of being no longer alive.” He adds that this “will
seem by no means strange to those who, knowing how many various
automata, or moving machines, the industry of men can make, using
only very few parts, in comparison with the large number of bones,
muscles, nerves, arteries, veins and all the other parts which are in
the body of every animal, will look upon the body as a machine which,
having been made by the hands of God, is incomparably better
organized . . . And if there were such machines having the organs and

O

 




 

 

external form of a monkey or some other animal devoid of reason,
we should not have any means of knowing that they were not entirely
of the same nature as these animals.” Descartes then claims that,
on the other hand, if automata existed in the form of men the
difference would be detectable, first from the fact that men can converse
and secondly because, instead of their reactions to stimuli having a
rigidly ﬁxed pattern, as he supposed the reactions of animals to have,
“ reason is a universal instrument which can serve for all sorts of
situations.”

These views were rebutted by the Cambridge platonists, Cudworth
and Henry More, and by the naturalist, John Ray (1692 ; Raven, 1942,
1951), and that most level-headed of philosophers, John Locke, also
rejected them. “ Birds learning of tunes,” he wrote (1689a),
“ and the endeavours one may observe in them to hit the notes right,
put it past doubt with me that they have perception and retain ideas
in their memories and use them for patterns. For it seems to me
impossible that they should endeavour to conform their voices to notes
(as it is plain they do) of which they had no ideas. For though I should
grant sound may mechanically cause a certain motion of the animal
spirits in the brains of those birds while the tune is actually playing ;
and that motion may be continued on to the muscles of the wings, and
so the bird be mechanically driven away by certain noises, because
this may tend to the bird’s preservation; . . . it cannot by any
appearance of reason be supposed (much less proved) that birds,
without sense and memory, can approach their notes nearer and
nearer by degrees to a tune played yesterday; which if they have no
idea of in their memory, is no—Where, nor can be a pattern for them to
imitate, or which any repeated essays can bring them nearer to.”
However, Locke’s commentator Dr. Morell (1793) objected that “ in
this instance of birds there is something wanting of convincing evidence
that they are conscious of what they do. That the singing of some
birds is in a great measure mechanical is manifest from their singing
more briskly in a room where there is most walking, talking, or any
sort of noisy motion.”

Descartes himself was not so dogmatic on this subject as his
followers were, and he even wrote thus to Monsieur Morus (1649) :
” I am referring to thinking, not to life or feeling ; for I do not deny
life to any animal . . . I do not even refuse them feeling, so far as this
depends on the organs of the body.” But what Descartes put forward
as a tentative speculation was adopted as a ruthless dogma by his
followers, and notably by the Port—Royalists (Sainte—Beuve, 1878).
They vivisected animals for fun, without anaesthetics of course, to show
their friends the circulation of the blood; and Malebranche used to
amuse himself by kicking his dog in order to hear what he took to be
the “ creaking of the machine.”

In the eighteenth century my distinguished clansman David
Hume, on the other hand, did not accept these views. In the course of his
acute analysis of inductive inference, which has set logicians by the ears
ever since, he devoted a whole section of his Treatise of H Izmzcim N ature

6

 

 




 

 

(1738) to the subject of “ The Reason of Animals,” using the word
“ reason ” to denote what we should call “learning” in addition to
logical inference Speaking of learning in animals, he says of the dog:
“ The inference he draws from the present impression ” (i.e. sensation)
“ is built on experience, and on his observation of the conjunction of
objects in past instances. As you vary the experience, so he varies his
reasoning. Make a beating follow upon one sign or motion for some
time, and afterwards upon another; and he will successively draw
different conclusions, according to his most recent experience.” And
earlier he says: “ The resemblance between the actions of animals
and those of men is so entire, in this respect, that the very ﬁrst action
of the ﬁrst animal we shall please to pitch on will afford us an incon—
testable argument for the present doctrine” ; the doctrine, that is,
that “ the beasts are endowed with thought and reason as well as men.”

Nevertheless the Cartesian theory of the robot animal continued
to encourage a contemptuous attitude which is still widespread on the
Continent and is summed up in the formula “Animals have no souls.”

Charles Darwin

It was this habit of mind that underlay the opposition encountered
by Charles Darwin, and with the eventual acceptance of Darwin’s
teaching the pendulum swung back in favour of anthropomorphism.
Darwin’s friend G. J. Romanes (1882, 1883) in particular, sought to
bring the development of mind within the ambit of his theory. The
work of Romanes on animal intelligence resembled the work of Darwin
on natural selection in being based, like astronomy, on careful
observation and hard thinking with comparatively little controlled
experimentation. Nevertheless when Romanes is scorned as a mere
anecdotalist one may wonder whether the baby is not being emptied out
with the bath water. He claimed that reﬂexes comprise only “ parti—
cular adjustive movements in response to particular stimulations ”
and wrote of the “ variable and incalculable character of mental
adjustment as distinguished from the constant and foreseeable
character of reﬂex adjustments”. (It is interesting that, writing three—
quarters—of—a—century ago, he took account of the performance of
calculating machines). He pointed out that while the presence of
ﬂexible instinctive responses and of learning is evidence of mind, the
rigidity of reﬂexes does not prove the absence of mind but merely fails
to prove its presence.

The pendulum swung back against anthropomorphism under the
inﬂuence of Lloyd Morgan (1894), who introduced his famous canon
that began as a rule of procedure and ended as a dogma. It read thus :
In no case may we interpret an action as the outcome of a higher
psychical faculty, if it can be interpreted as the outcome of the exercise
of one which stands lower in the psychological scale.”

Lloyd Morgan thus deliberately imported a systematic bias into
the interpretation of animal behaviour. It was as if you were to rule
that, in a parliamentary election, all electors who did not go to the
poll must be counted as having voted for the socialist candidates;

7

 




 

 

or that, at the Heligoland bird trap, all birds found without rings on
their legs are to be reckoned as having come from Russia. Surely the
right course to adopt in interpreting animal behaviour is to keep an
open mind until the evidence is seen to favour one rather than another
of the possible explanations that can be suggested for any particular
instance of it ; and meanwhile to adopt, provisionally, that explanation
which best commends itself to common sense at the time.

Now the faculty which stands lowest in the psychological scale
is that of showing invariable reﬂexes, and Lloyd Morgan’s canon
implies that if any behaviour can, with a little ingenuity, be explained
away as a mere reﬂex, that explanation is to be favoured in preference
to any other, in conformity with the arbitrary bias prescribed by the
canon. It is accordingly to the widespread adoption of Lloyd Morgan’s
canon that we must, I believe, attribute the practice of writing such
words as “ hunger,” “ fear” and “ pain ” between quotes when they
relate to animals, though never when they relate to human beings.

Objectivism (or positivism)

So far 1 have been discussing the fact that the great differences
which exist between man and beast have been used not only by anti—
vivisectionists as an argument for rejecting comparative biology, but
also by anti—anthropomorphists as an argument for rejecting
anthropomorphism. I now come to a second manner of thinking which,
if followed out consistently, must apply to man and beast alike and,
if converted into a dogma, must issue in solipsism. I refer to what is
called “ objectivism ” by ethologists and “ positivism ” by philosophers;
that is, to the doctrine that nothing can be known except phenomena
and the relations between them. I do not propose to criticize
objectivism here, but merely to point out that it originated with human
psychology, and can be applied to man and beast alike.

In the same way that anti—anthropomorphists refuse to interpret
observations upon animals in terms of mind, Pyrrho of Elis refused to
interpret any of his observations in terms of either minds or objects.
“ And his life,” says Sex us Empiricus “ was consistent with this.
Turning aside for nothing and avoiding nothing he took everything as
it came, if chariots happened to meet him, and precipices, dogs and the
like, allowing no weight to the evidence of his senses. But he was looked
after (as Carystius Antigonus tells us) by his friends who followed
him . . . And once when Anaxarchus had fallen into a ditch he passed
by and lent him no help. And when many censured this action,
Anaxarchus himself commended him for having borne himself un-
concernedly and without emotion.”

The fourteenth-century schoolman ‘William of Ockham, whose
name is familiar in connection with Ockham’s Razor, pointed out
that it is impossible to prove that any particular man [is a man, and not
a corpse manipulated by an angel after the manner of a puppet
(Crombie, 1952). If you are a dogmatic objectivist and wish to be

8

A .. . _ A r‘”‘w‘-\~; , . U




strictly logical and consistent, you must say “ in quotes ” every time-
you mention our Chairman, or anybody else, for it is impossible to
prove that he is not an illusory phantom.

The word ” positivism ” was invented more than a century ago
by the French writer Auguste Comte, who also elaborated the principle
denoted by it and by its modern synonym ” objectivism.” Although
most of what Comte wrote was superﬁcial, several pregnant ideas are-
to be found buried in the ﬂoods of trivial verbiage which ﬁll the six
volumes of his Com’s d6 Philosophie Positive. His positivist principle
is summarized thus by J. S. Mill (1865) : that “ we have no knowledge
of anything but phenomena; and our knowledge of phenomena is
relative, not absolute.”

Comte’s other pregnant ideas to which I have referred include
an insistance on the importance for psychology of brain physiology,
which he (1838a) took to mean phrenology, and a forecast of the
value of the comparative study of human and animal behaviour
(18386). But the point I wish to emphasize is this. Garrulous and in—
consistent though Comte’s writing was, and full of base-degrees
(Jeffreys, 1957) fallacies, he did at least recognize that his principle
must be applied to man as well as to beast if at all. Thus he wrote-
(18380) : “ The naturalists have forced the metaphysicians to renounce
at last the singular device thought up by Descartes, and to recognize,
more or less explicitly, that the animals, at all events in the higher
part of the zoological scale, manifest in reality most of our emotional
faculties and even our intellectual ones, simply with differences of
degree.” And he remarks (183865): “ Doubtless a cat . . . though
unable to use the pronoun ‘ l,’ does not usually mistake itself for some
one other than itself.” He also denounced (l838b) “ the vain and
unseemly declamations of theologians and metaphysicians against
the pretended tendency of such a doctrine to degrade human nature.”

Positivism was adopted, under another name, by J. B. Watson
(1925), the founder of behaviourism. W’atson considered that the
work of all the psychologists who had preceded him, such as \Vundt,
William James and MacDougall, was worthless, and he wrote cont—r
temptuously of “ the major assumption that there is such a thing as
consciousness and that we can analyze it by introspection.” In this
state of unconsciousness he proceeded unconsciously to write a course-
of lectures for the ediﬁcation of his unconscious hearers and readers,
but at least he applied to the human mind the same negations that he
applied to the animal mind.

W. H. Thorpe

It is pleasant to turn to a more judicious and balanced writer.
W’. H. Thorpe (1956) has this to say in the course of a reference to
Sornmerhoff: “ Somerhoff’s arguments have shown, perhaps more
dramatically than ever before, that both subjective and objective concepts
are necessary in the scientiﬁc study of life, and that a biology which
succeeds in being purely objective, however powerful it may be in
parts of its ﬁeld, must fail to provide a full biological philosophy —~-

9

 




 

 

just as surely as a purely subjective biology would be unthinkable. In
other words, subjective concepts derived from introspection are among
the essential tools for the study of life, and the only hope for a complete
biology is to combine subjective and objective in the right proportions,
using each approach with due circumspection and adequate safe-
guards as it is required.”

Konrad Lorenz and N. Tinbergen

With these wise words in mind, let us turn to the Lorenz-
Tinbergen school and say in their praise that they use objectivism,
that is to say positivism, as a method without converting it into a
dogma. On one hand Lorenz devised such mechanistic concepts as
reaction—speciﬁc energy, innate releasing mechanisms, and imprinting,
and Tinbergen (1951a) speciﬁcally objects to the incorporation of any
consideration of subjective phenomena or directiveness into a study
of the causation of behaviour. These workers are seeing, in fact, how
far they can get with the mechanistic hypothesis of a hierarchy of
instincts governed by a hierarchy of neural mechanisms, and ﬁnd the
method a fertile source of ideas for experiments. On the other hand
King Solomon’s Ring (Lorenz, 1950) is frankly anthropomorphic,
and illuminatingly so, and as Tinbergen nears the end of his Study of
Instinct (1951), and still more in his Social Behaviour in Animals (1953),
he reminds me a little of Dr. Johnson’s friend who had tried in his time
to be a philosopher but found to his dismay that cheerfulness would
keep breaking in; in Tinbergen’s case, subjective insights will keep
breaking in. In chapter VII of his Study of Instinct, Tinbergen explicitly
faces the task of integrating the subjective and objective interpretations
of animal behaviour, though he might prefer a different way of saying
this. I must confess that his synthesis takes me a little out of my
depth, but Professor C. A. Coulson (1955) compares the parallel
problem, of synthesizing the scientiﬁc and theistic views of the
universe, to that of mentally synthesizing a plan and sectional elevation
of a building. It is easy to understand either drawing alone, but a
greater intellectual effort is needed to synthesize the two.

But I suspect that an ethologist would not know what components
of behaviour to look for if he did not, consciously or unconsciously,
use subjective clues. I have already referred to the analogy between
our intuitive interpretation of animal behaviour in anthropomorphic
terms, on one hand, and our intuitive interpretation of the expression
of a human face, on the other. Now Darwin (1889b) reproduced some
photographs, taken by Duchenne, of expressions induced by electric
stimulation of an old man’s facial muscles ; but could Duchenne have
found the right muscles to stimulate if- he had not followed a
subjective clue? And could Leonardo da Vinci have painted La
Gioconda with the right expression, but for the clue afforded by his
subjective interpretation of her smile? I suspect that, in the same
way, an ethologist must look over his shoulder at his subjective
insights into the meaning of behaviour, for otherwise he would have
no clues to suggest the mutual relevance of the various components
of a behavioural syndrome, and to help him, provisionally at all

10

 

 




 

 

events, to group those components under the right instincts. And
then, having looked over his shoulder at his illicit subjective insights, he
tries to hide his sin and shame by putting in some quotes.

What is more important for my purpose, however, is that
Tinbergen ends up his Study of I nsttnct with six pages devoted to
"‘ The Ethological Study of Man,” and this brings me back to where
I began.

Solipsism

When objectivism, as applied to animals, is changed from a
method into a dogma, it leads its adherents to write such words as
“ hunger,” “ fear ” and “ pain ” between quotes. They shrink from
putting, even prtma facte, the natural intuitive interpretation on the
behaviour of animals. But if they should resolve to be consistent
they would have to apply this principle to human beings also, and
then it would lead them straight into solipsism. Let us see, then,
what light solipsism can throw on our subject.

I feel a strong conviction that you exist, and you feel a strong
conviction that I exist. So strong are such convictions that many
people are incapable of questioning them. But is their strength due
to strength of the evidence, or merely to the force of habit? The
answer is that it cannot be due to the strength of the evidence, for a
careful scrutiny of the latter will show it to be very thin. lts thinness
can most easily be seen by remembering that in a vivid dream it is
possible to see and argue with people who, as one now admits, were
not really there. It is even possible to dream that one has just awakened
from a dream, or that one is arguing with somebody as to whether one
is dreaming or not. Most philosophers Shirk this difﬁcult issue, but it is
interesting to see how John Locke (16893)) dealt with it. “ If any one
will be so sceptical,” he says “ if he pleases he may dream that I
make him this answer, that the certainty of things existing in serum
natm'a, when we have the testimony of our senses for it, is not only
as great as our frame can attain to, but as our condition needs. For
our faculties being suited not to . . . a perfect, clear, comprehensive
knowledge of things free from all doubt and scruple but to the preserva-
tion of us, in whom they are, . . . they serve our purpose well enough,
if they will but give us notice of those things which are convenient or
inconvenient for us.” He then gives as an instance the burning of
your hand if you put it in a ﬂame. Thus, he resorts to what would now
be called a positivist solution. But in this way he misses the point,
which is that we shall feel very lonely and unhappy if we may not
assume that the conscious minds of our friends really exist, as noumena
that never become phenomena for us ; as entities which are real but
not observable. Dogmatic objectivists must repudiate this assumption ;
they must live as solitary solipsists in a lonely universe, if they are to be
consistent. Ayer (1956) tried to solve the problem in some pages of
diffuse semantics, but he lost it in a sea of words ; for the real difﬁculty
here is not to analyse meaning but to validate belief. Herbert Dingle
(1955) devoted to the same subject twenty-two pages which contain
some sound common sense, but he missed the point also.

11

 




 

It seems to me that the only valid answer to solipsism, which
will also point to a ﬁnal justiﬁcation of anthropomorphism, is one
given by Bishop Butler (1736) in the parallel case of atheism. It
amounts to this, that while in academic speculation our conclusions
may, if we choose, be determined by probability alone, in practical affairs
they must be determined not by simple probability but by something
like what mathematicians call “ expectation.” Thus the answer to
solipsism is this, that if I assume other people to exist when in fact
they do not, as certainly happens in dreams, no harm will be done ;
whereas if, in the converse case, I assume that people do not exist
when in fact they do, great harm will result. The same principle
applies to anthropomorphism. If I assume that animals have subjective
feelings of pain, fear, hunger and the like, and if I am mistaken in
doing so, no harm will have been done ; but if I assume the contrary
when in fact animals do have such feelings, then I open the way to the
unlimited cruelties for which we execrate the Port—Royalists. This is
the conclusive defence of anthropomorphism : animals must have the
beneﬁt of the doubt, if indeed there be any doubt. And if I am asked
how low down in the animal world such feelings must be imputed,
the answer is plain: any organism which is capable of learning by
rewards and punishments must be assumed to be capable of feeling
pleasure and pain in the absence of proof to the contrary, and the
only conditionable animals of which the contrary can be proved are
Grey W alter’s electronic tortoises.

Conclusion

I have tried to show that the objections to anthropomorphism
must lead the objector to become an anti-vivisectionist or a solipsist
or both, if he is to be consistent, and that on the other hand an
anthropomorphic understanding of animal behaviour, provided it be
judiciously controlled by reference to observable facts, is justified by
our intuitive interpretation; by the experience of those who have
to deal with animals ; by the theory of evolution ; by the behaviour
of animals in response to injuries; by the ﬂexibility of instinctive
behaviour ; by the rudiments of language which many species possess ;
by electroencephalography; by the existence of psychosomatic maladies
in animals; and by the ability of animals to learn or be conditioned.
If in spite of these considerations anybody insists on using quotes
when he refers to mental states in animals he has a right to do so,
of course, but only on condition of being consistent; so that if he
should have occasion to tell a friend that his wife still loves him, he
must put the word loves ” between quotes as well.

12

 

 




 

 

AYER, A. J. :

BAKER, JOHN R. :

BUTLER, BP. JOSEPH :

COMTE, AUGUer :

COULSON, C. A. :

CROMBIE, A. C. :

DARWIN, CHARLES R. :

DESCARTES, RENE’ :

DINGLE, H. :

GRINDLEY, G. C. :
HUME, DAVID :

JEFFERYS, SIR J. :
LACK, DAVID :

LOCKE, J OHN :

LORENZ, KONRAD Z. :

MILL, J. S. :
MORELL, THOMAS :

MORGAN, C. Lloyd :

PUMPHREY, R. J. :

RAVEN, CHARLES E. :
RAVEN, CHARLES E. :

RAY, J OHN :

ROMANEs, G. J.

'SAINrE—BEUVE, C. A. :

SExrus EMPIRICUS :
.SPEARMAN, C. :

REFERENCES

1956. “ The Problem of Knowledge,” pp. 36,
81—84, 243—254 (Macmillan).

1948. “ The Scientiﬁc Basis of Kindness to
Animals.” (UFAVV).

1736. “ The Analogy of Religion,” pp. 188, 189
(Everyman).

1838. “ Cours de Philosophie Positive,” tome 3,
(here translated). (a) 456 legon passim. (b) p. 834
(c) p. 774. (d) p. 783.

1955. “ Science and Christian Belief,” pp. 66, 67.
(O.U.P.).

1952. “ Augustine to Galileo,” p. 233 (Falcon).
1889a. “ The Expression of the Emotions in Man
and Animals,” pp. 13—15 (2nd edition).

1889!). ibid. pp. 317, 323, plate III (6), plate VII
(2).

1637. “ Discours de la Me’thode,” end of part 5.
Cf. Oeuvres Completes, Vol. IX, p. 426; Vol. X,
p. 204 (Paris, 1825).

1649. “ Lettre a M. Morus, 15 mars, 1649.”
Oeuvres Completes, vol. X, p. 208. Cf. pp. 207 and
224—227. (Paris, 1925).

1955. " Solipsism and Related Matters.” Illind,
Vol. LXVI, p. 433.

1933. “ The Sense of Pain in Animals ” (UFAW).
1738. “ A Treatise of Human Nature.” Bk. 1,
pt. 111, sec. xvi.

1957. “ Scientiﬁc Inference,” pp. 171, 188 (O.U.P.).
1953. “ The Life of the Robin,” pp. 156, 165, 167
(Penguin).

1689a. “ An Essay Concerning Human Under-
standing.” Bk. 2, chap. 10, sec. 10 (19th edition).
1689b. ibid. Bk. 4, chap. ii, sec. 8.

1950. (trs. 1952) : “ King Solomon’s Ring.”

1865. " Auguste Comte and Positivism,” p. 6.
1793. Notes in the nineteenth edition of Locke’s
“ Essay concerning the Human Understanding,"
ad loc. on p. 34. (G. Sael, London, 1794).

1894. “ Introduction to Comparative Psychology,’
p. 53.

1952. “ Ethology comes of Age,” Advancement of
Science, Vol. 8, pp. 376, 377.

1942. ” John Ray, Naturalist,” pp. 374, 375.
1951. Gifford Lectures, p. 109.

1692. “ The Wisdom of God in Creation,” pp.
42-44.

1882. “ Animal Intelligence,” pp. 2—5 (Kegan

Paul). . .
1883. “ Mental Evolution In Animals,” chap. 1

(Kegan Paul).

1878. “Port Royal,” Bk. 2, chap. 16 and note
21 thereon.

“ Pyrrhonis Eliensis Vita, ex Diogene Laertio.”
1927. “ The Abilities of Man,” p. 167.

13

}

 




TINBERGEN, N.: 1951. “ The Study of Instinct,” p. 3. (O.U.P.).

TINBERGEN, N. : 1953. “ Social Behaviour in Animals,” p. 7
(Methuen).

WATSON, J. B. : 1925. “ Behaviourism,” p. 6 (Kegan Paul)

WELLS, H. (3., HUXLEY, J.

AND WELLS, G. P: 1937. “ How Animals Behave,” p. 200. (Cassell).

 

Published by UFAW
(The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare).
7a Lamb’s Conduit Passage,

London, IV.C.1.

l4

 

 

 




 

 

THE UFAW HANDBOOK ON THE CARE AND MANAGE-
MENT OF LABORATORY ANIMALS. Joint Editors: Alastair
N. Worden, M.A.(CANTAB.), B.SC.(L0ND.), M.R.C.V.S., F.R.I.C., & W. Lane-
Petter, M.A., M.B., B.CHIR.(CANTAB). 972 pp. 339 illus. Price 705. from
E. &. S. Livingstone Ltd., 16 and 17 Teviot Place, Edinburgh 1.

"It would be hard to overstate the importance of this book, which
should be looked on as a compulsory purchase by all who undertake animal
experiments.”

The Lancet.

“It would be difﬁcult to praise this book too highly as a work of
reference."

Animal Breeding Abstracts.

" The welfare of the animal is always uppermost in the authors’ minds.
and there is an urgent ‘message’ throughout that only the best is good
enough?’

Veterinary Record.

 

 

HUMANE TECHNIQUE IN THE LABORATORY. Papers read
at a symposium held by UFAW on 8th May, 1957. Published as
Vol. 6 of the Laboratory Animals Centre Collected Papers. 81 pp.
Foreword by Prof. P. B. Medawar, M.A., B.SC., C.B.E., F.R.S. Contri-
butors: Major C. W. Hume, M.C., B.SC., W. Lane-Fetter, M.A., M.B.,
Phyllis G. Croft, PH.D., M.R.C.V.S., W. M. S. Russell, M.A., D.PHIL.,
G. Sykes, M.SC., F.R.I.C., F. Kingsley Sanders, M.A., D.PHIL., W. Grey
Walter, M.A., SC.D., M. R. A. Chance, B.SC., Joyce L. Bloom, B.SC.
Price 105. post free from UFAW.

 

 

THE STRATEGY AND TACTICS OF EXPERIMENTATION
and SOLDIERS AND LABORATORY ANIMALS. Papers from
the above symposium by Major C. W. Hume, M.C., B.SC. Reprinted
from the Lancet. Gratis from UFAW.

 

 

KIND KILLING, by F. Jean Vinter, MD. 32 pp. Practical instruc-
tions for painlessly killing a variety of animals. Price 6d. from

UFAW.

 

 

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE LEGAL PROTECTION OF
LABORATORY ANIMALS OVERSEAS, with a summary of
British law and practice on which the suggestions are based with
improvement. Prepared in 1954 by the Scientiﬁc Sub-Committee of

UFAW. Gratis from UFAW.

 

 

THE PRINCIPLES OF HUMANE EXPERIMENTAL TECH-
NIQUE, by W. M. S. Russell, M.A., I).PHIL., M.I.BIOL., and R. L.
Burch. 248 pp., 9 illus., 22 tables. Publlshed by Methuen & Co, Ltd.
Also available from UFAW. 30s., postage ls. 3d.

15

 




Reprinted from The UP A W C ozm'er,
No. 16, Autumn 1959, by
UFA\V
(The Unrz’versz'zfies Federation for Animal I/Velfarc)
7a Lamb’s Conduit Passage
London, \V.C.1.

Courier Co. Ltd.,
Tunbridge Wells

 




WYLIE BIOLOGY CLASS

 

Students Perform Surgery

By EDDIE HUGHES
News Staff Writer
WYLIE, Texas — Under four
wire-strung lamps which swung
slighly in the breeze, six small
figures put out their green
masks; all was very quiet.

Then one of them, her eyes
cool as ice, spoke:

“Scalpel.”

Not an eye flinched. The
young, feminine hand took the
small knife and smoothly, swift-
ly drew it across—from left to
right.

Beneath her mask, Jane Gay-
ler, 16, sighed. A senior at the
T. F. Birmingham High School
in Wylie, she had just made
her first surgical incision on a
live dog which now lay dozing
soundly under an anesthetic.
Then Jane stepped aside and
let her biology teacher, H. F.
McMillian, take over.

This was no ordinary high
school class. It is called Ad-
vanced Biology, and some pro-
fessional people say the course
in Wylie is far advanced from
that of any other school in
Texas.

McMillian said his advanced
students, before the semester
is over, will have performed
more practical surgery than
most college graduating medi-
cal students.

“Our college medical students
are tops when it comes to theory
in abdominal surgery; the only
trouble is, they have never held
the scalpel themselves,” McMil-

Why start teaching so young?

“The kids wanted it,” he said.

The biology teacher two years
ago investigated and learned
there were no hard-fast rules
governing what constitutes an
“advanced science class.”

“I was told in Austin that it
could be whatever the kids were
interested in, that it made no
difference,” he said.

McMillian, a graduate of East
Texas State College, came to
the Wylie school four years ago.
His advanced biology course is
in its second year.

An unused classroom behind
his science classroom has been
converted into a full-scale lab
and operating room.

Its equipment, he said, was
mostly “scrounged up.”

Much of the instruments are
Army surplus, and more than
half of it was actually given to
the advanced class by various
hospitals in Dallas and McKin-
ney.

Before the semester is over,
McMillian’s six students will
have participated in some seven
or eight “major” surgeries—-
each with a different mission.

Their first operation this past
week was to remove about nine
inches of a dog’s lower intestine.

 

A similar operation on
human being would be for over-
weight persons who could not
hold to their diet.

“The less absorbent intestines
a man has, the less food he will
digest into his system,” McMil-
lian pointed out.

“This is the exact. type of
surgery which is being pushed
right nOw by the American Med-
ical Association.” he said. “And
whatever the AMA is pushing,
we want to learn.”

Assisting McMillan in his
practical lab exercises is Dr.
T. M. Trimble, Wylie physician
who operates the local clinic.

During the operation on the
dog last week, Dr Trimble
stayed until the last knot had
been tied in the internal
stitches.

The next. time. he pI‘Obably
will leave a little earlier. The
third operation, even sooner.
Eventually, the class will have
the last operation to itself, With
its instructor merely looking 0"

The first operation last week
took on all the aspects Of a
Ben Casey thriller.

Beside her instructor, Jane
called out the progress 0f the
operation to Susan Jenningsr a
sophomore.

“Into the peritenal cavity”,
Jane instructed.

“Gee. How do you spell it?”
Susan asked.

“How is he?” asked Brenda
Muetzenberg, a junior.
9“He’s OK,” answered David
Akin, a sophomore and the only
boy in the class. He was work-
ing with the stethoscope.

Wanda Rains, a junior, and
Vickie Waters, a sophomore,
were busy cleaning and steriliz-
ing equipment.

At 8:27 pm, 50 minutes after
the operation started, the last
knot was tied. The operation
was a success.

“We had a mongrel last year
who underwent an operation
that lasted until 2 a.m.,” Jane,
the only senior in the class,
recalled.

“Four months later, she gave
birth to six pups.’

Having actually participated
in her first surgery, Jane was
asked what was the toughest
part. of the entire operation.

She thought a minute, ponder~
ing over 1-hour experience, then
answered:

“I wanted to scratch my nose.
But that was against all sterile
precautions. It was hard to keep
from it, though.”

 

f

lian declared. i

Sterile technique.

 

at): 4331

Sunday, March 31, 1963

as morning we

NEWS OF LOCAL INTEREST Section 1 ——

—Dallas News Staff Photos by Clint Grant.

13 (1 success.

 

The operation

 

 




72g . .a
W953.
argﬁglaér
“slight"?
si'.§§5,,sn=

m...
.éa—«a’u
Ware»
a:
n
mfg “an
",7; vat:
.
dmuﬁ :
a ,
a
:3: 5’9

“3'11“:
. “$3“
‘ an?“ .55::,
at...
:axf‘ﬁ r“
“9 «3% w
= =.”=§§ -
I}: .
Run
11‘ 5’0
far" as“
..a‘« m-

arm-J
m .. n»
éfé‘za'.’

a
2.9%:

n
.-

S.1233 and H.R.2653 ARE NEEDED TO PREVENT
INTENSE PAIN AND PROLONGED DISTRESS
WHICH IN NO WAY CONTRIBUTES TO THE
ADVANCEMENT OF BIOMEDICAL SCIENCE.

n . .
.

g“. egg-5%..

ﬁanw‘niégagw

a
nu ,
n “3?

mg

‘12:

Inga». ' ‘
M

:a x.
azgé‘ﬁ '.

is;

1) On Friday afternoon at 3:30 p.m., two dogs
fresh from surgery, still unconscious, were left in a
room full of other caged dogs, with no provision for
care as they came out of anesthesia or for needed atten-

tion over the weekend.

8.1233 and H.R.2653 mandate pre- and
post-surgical care. They call for use of pain-relieving

 

:glx

Iu

: ' - v - . . , . , . . g 2) Failure of government agencies to avoid
3' l" s l' y- "957', = ~ I ‘ duplicative testing by checking with one another has
‘ H A l ' " ‘ led to massive waste of taxpayers’ money. The animals

used in such tests, many of them painful and lethal,

suffered to no purpose whatever. The head of the In—

t€ragency Regulatory Liaison Group stated: “If a

single test, done with a given procedure, would satisfy

all of the agencies’ requirements, there would be

significant savings. It may reach billions of dollars. ”

Here are current

examples of suffering
which 8.1233 and , . * ° 3 3 Id bllh '
.. _ * ,p - . g, 7 1-,, , _. ~ > , . _ ‘ .1233 and H.R.265 wou esta 's an 1n-
H.R.2653 would .f." . ‘ ~ - ~ »- - . - < .. ’ 1 g formation service at the National Agricultural
' Library in cooperation with the National Library
of Medicine to prevent unintended duplication, and
to provide information on alternatives to animals.

HS US

prevent.

photo

i “ “Ne-Mam

mm,“ $15.“,

“"I‘Huzu‘yy.,

 




@ Lifeforce — Peter Hamilton

3) Some medical schools and hospitals continue
to train students in practice surgery using the same dog
repeatedly for major abdominal surgery. They do this
despite a recommendation against it in the Guide for
the Care and Use of Experimental Animals that Na-
tional Institutes of Health grantees are supposed to
follow.

8.1233 and H.R.2653 would prohibit this
callous and outdated system of subjecting the same
dog to student operations.

4) Animals are often left to die slowly and pain-
fully in their cages from the results of experiments and
tests, even though the results have been achieved and

the ﬁnal agony does nothing to advance scientific
goals.

»- Peter Hamilton

5 Lifer-011:6

8.1233 and H.R.2653 provide that pain
relieving drugs or euthanasia may not be un-
necessarily withheld from suffering animals.

@ Lifeforce — Peter Hamilton

5) Recently Ohio State University was fined by
the U.S. Department of Agriculture under the existing
Animal Welfare Act for placing chains with identifica-
tion tags on the necks of kittens and, with almost
unbelievably callous negligence, allowing them to re-
main as the kittens grew so that the chains and tags
were actually embedded in their necks.

T , 8.1233 and H.R.2653 make several provi-
sions to prevent such obvious failure by experi-
menters or caretakers to look at the animals: 1) the
institutions must provide instruction or training on
animal maintenance to personnel, 2) each institu-
tional committee must have an outside member to
inspect and represent society’s concerns for the
welfare of the animal subjects, 3) research facilities
must inform their employees to report any viola-
tions and not discriminate against them for such
reporting. These provisions would help mitigate
shortage of enforcement funds which has prevented
USDA inspectors from making rounds as frequently
as they should.

 

6) Forward-looking institutions have long since
stopped 1950’s-style lifetime caging of dogs — packing
a room full of a hundred dogs in tiered cages from
which they emerge only for experiments. But many
dogs still are permanently caged, their only means of
protest the deafening barking and ﬂinging of their

bodies against the metal cage walls when a stranger
enters the room.

‘8 1‘ 8.1233 and H.R.2653 add to the standards
now required by the Animal Welfare Act the pro-
vision for exercise, thus ending this ugly, long-
standing abuse just because a stubborn individual
or group refuses to give these most trusting animals
the basic comfort of being allowed to relieve
themselves outside their sleeping space. The so-called
“random source dogs” sold by dog dealers who
comb the country from state to state buying dogs
from “bunchers” and pounds, are sometimes house-
trained former pets that can become ill to the point
of death by prolonged restraint from urinating in
their cages.

"PUBLIC MISINFORMATION

In their required annual reports to the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture many institutions claim they have
caused no unrelieved pain to laboratory animals. One of
these is the University of Pennsylvania. Spokesmen for
the University publicly asserted that baboons used in its
Head Injury Clinical Research Center were anesthetized
and felt no pain, but the protocol for the National In-
stitutes of Health grant states that the general anesthetic
is allowed to wear off for a full hour before the massive

 

 

 

 




injury is inﬂicted. NIH grants have
amounted to nearly one million
dollars a year even though the
University admittedly failed to meet
the standards in the NIH “Guide”.
An inspection by a USDA Animal
Care Specialist revealed 74 alleged
violations of the Animal Welfare Act.
Videotapes made by the re-
searchers themselves* show surgery
being conducted on a baboon who is
coming out of anesthesia and trying
to get up. The tapes also show
nonsterile surgery. A surgeon even
drops an instrument on the floor,
picks it up and without sterilizing it,
continues the operation. In another sequence researchers are hammering with
a carpenter’s hammer and screwdriver to remove the helmet fastened to the
baboon’s head with dental cement. This crude method of removing the helmet
causes unquantified trauma throwing the scientific results into question. As
the helmet finally breaks, the researcher comments: ‘ ‘Seems like I left a little

ear behind.’ ’

*These videotapes were illegally removed by a group called the Animal Liberation Front. The Society
for AnImal Protective Legislation does not endorse the theft of the tapes, but it is not illegal to show
and VIew copies of the incriminating evidence. Copies of excerpts from the 60 hour long record have
been w1dely circulated and a copy of all the tapes was provided by PeOple for the Ethical Treatment
of Animals to the US. Department of Agriculture for review.

 

Photo: Buddhists Concerned for Animals

 

Whole associations of scientists have donated money to finance appeal
after appeal to rid Edward Taub of his original conviction on six counts
of cruelty in failing to provide adequate veterinary care for his experimen-
tal primates. Testimony under oath demonstrated the filthy conditions: ir-
regular feeding by unsupervised ill-paid students who came in at any hour
of day or night, sometimes not at all; rotting bandages, rotting food, piles
of mouldy feces, rodent infestation, a malfunctioning lighting system which
left the lights on 24 hours a day; a veterinarian whose activities were limited
to signing his name to NIH forms; and a refrigerator containing prescrip-

tion drugs dating back to the 1960’s.

Edward Taub received more than $2 million from NIH over the years,
and he claims that the conditions in his laboratory are no different from
other primate labs! Two colleagues agreed with him.

 

VIOLATIONS OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE ACT

In a study of USDA inspection reports
for more than 200 institutions obtained
under the Freedom of Information Act it
was found that only about a fifth are
regularly meeting the standards of the
Animal Welfare Act. The others are divid-
ed as shown.

Clearly, USDA’S veterinary inspectors
must be given more authority so that institu-
tions take their obligations under the law
seriously and do not repeat their failures to

‘ comply or allow violations to recur.

52.9%

One or more
deficiencies,
some serious
or chronic

19°70

No deﬁciencies

25.8070

Serious and
chronic
deﬁciencies

Under investigation

Photo: Alex Pacheco

© Lifeforce — Peter Hamilton

PROVISIONS OF THE DOLE AND BROWN BILLS

8.1233 and H.R.2653 would establish principles already
recognized by responsible scientists and administrators. It
would direct that investigators:

I Consider the use of alternatives to animals and strive
to use the least painful practices.

I Avoid repeated use of the same animal for painful
procedures.

I Use anesthesia when an animal has been paralyzed by
a curare-like drug.

I Consult with a veterinarian in planning potentially pain-
ful experiments or tests to minimize pain.

I Never withhold painkillers or euthanasia any longer
than strictly necessary.

I Avoid unintended or otherwise unnecessary duplication
of experiments or tests.

To assist in putting these humane principles into practice,
8.1233 and H.R.265i3 would provide an information service
at the National Agricultural Library, in consultation with the
National Library of Medicine, in order to prevent unnecessary
duplication of experiments or tests and to give information
on alternatives to laboratory animals.

The bills also would require each institution to form an
animal committee, including at least one member not
associated with the institution. Such a member would be
responsible for representing society’s concerns for the welfare
of the animals.

The bills would prevent discrimination against personnel
who report violations to the committee.

The bills would amend the Federal Animal Welfare Act
passed In 1966 and amended In 1970 and 1976. Enforced by
the U. S. Department of Agriculture’s Veterinary Services, the

I
i

Photographs of the eyes of rabbits after undergoing the Draize Ra 0

law now sets minimum standards of care but fails to include
any of the above-mentioned points, which are essential to pre-
vent the needless pain and distress widespread in laboratories
throughout our nation.

We owe decent treatment to the animals that give their lives
to improve our health. It is the least we can do to repay them.

Who could object to this moderate, humane legislation
carefully drafted in consultation with scientific and animal
welfare groups and free of any substantial expenditures by
government or industry?

For one, those who want to sell the maximum numbers of
animals to laboratories like the multinational animal dealer
and breeder Charles River. This ﬁrm receives millions of
dollars each year from the National Institutes of Health on
contract to supply small animals. It uses these contracts in
its full-page ads soliciting trade.

In its ads for cynomolgus monkeys, it advises scientists:
“Don’t put your research on hold” for lack of primates. The
fact that all primates are listed as endangered or threatened
by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora doesn’t slow down Charles
River’s aggressive salesmanship on these monkeys.

Meantime, important advances are being made in scien-
tifically sound ways to reduce massive use of animals and pro-
vide better safety for human beings through improved tox-
icological tests.

The Dole and Brown bills provide a moderate but effec-
tive and logical step to obtaining humane treatment for
laboratory animals. They should become law in this session
of Congress.

 




 

f LABORATORY ANIMAL DEALERS: A PROFIT PICTURE

Before it became part of Bausch and Lomb in 1984,
Charles River Laboratories, the world’s biggest laboratory
animal dealer, showed annual sales of about $45 million
with year end profits of $6.2 million. The growth rate
has been 17%, and Forbes magazine listed Charles River
among “up and comers/the class of ’83.”

I The Dole bill and the Brown bill were speciﬁcally
drafted to avoid major expenditures by either the govern-
ment or the institutions. They do not aim at more bricks
and mortar, but at minimizing pain and distress and
reducing the number of animals used.

 

.9.) Lifeforce — Peter Hamilton

PLEASE URGE YOUR LEGISLATORS TO SUPPORT
S.1233 and H.R.2653

ALL SENATORS MAY BE ADDRESSED:
Senate Office Building, Washington, DC. 20510

ALL REPRESENTATIVES MAY BE ADDRESSED:
House Office Building, Washington, DC. 20515

CO-SPONSORS OF 5.1233

The author of 8.1233 is Senator Robert Dole (R, KS). The co-sponsors are Senator Jeff
Bingaman (D, NM), Senator Rudy Boschwitz (R, MN), Senator Quentin Burdick (D,
ND), Senator John Chafee (R, R1), Senator William Cohen (R, ME), Senator Alfonse
D’Amato (R, NY), Senator David Durenberger (R, MN), Senator Wendell Ford (D, KY),
Senator Slade Gorton (R, WA), Senator John Heinz (R, PA), Senator Robert Kasten Jr.
(R, WI), Senator Patrick Leahy (D, VT), Senator Spark Matsunaga (D, HI), Senator
Claiborne’Pell (D, RI), Senator William Proxmire (D, WI), Senator William Roth, Jr. (R,
DE), Senator Paul Simon (D, IL), Senator Robert Stafford (R, VT), Senator Ted Stevens
(R, AK), Senator Edward Zorinsky (D, NE).

CO-SPONSORS OF H.R.2653

The author of H.R.2653 is Rep. George E. Brown, Jr. (D, CA). The co-sponsors are Rep.
Thomas S. Foley (D, WA), Rep. Daniel K. Akaka (D, HI), Rep. Chester G. Atkins (D,
MA), Rep. Helen Bentley (R, MD), Rep. Howard L. Berman (D, CA), Rep. Mario
Biaggi (D, NY), Rep. Sherwood L. Boehlert (R, NY), Rep. Robert A. Borski (D, PA),
Rep. Barbara Boxer (D, CA), Rep. John Bryant (D, TX), Rep. Sala Burton (D, CA),
Rep. William Carney (R, NY), Rep. Rod Chandler (R, WA), Rep. William Clay (D,
MO), Rep. George W. Crockett, Jr. (D, MI), Rep. Robert W. Davis (R, MI), Rep.
Ronald V. Dellums (D, CA), Rep. Robert K. Dornan (R, CA), Rep. Mervyn M. Dymally
(D, CA), Rep. Dennis E. Eckart (D, OH), Rep. Bob Edgar (D, PA), Rep. Don Edwards
(D, CA), Rep. Mickey Edwards (R, OK), Rep. Vic Fazio (D, CA), Rep. Hamilton Fish,
Jr. (R, NY), Rep. Don Fuqua (D, FL), Rep. Sam Gibbons (D, FL), Rep. Willis D.
Gradison, Jr. (R, OH), Rep. Kenneth Gray (D, IL), Rep. Bill Green (R, NY), Rep. Judd
Gregg (R, NH), Rep. Frank J. Guarini (D, NJ), Rep. Cecil Heftel (D, HI), Rep. Frank
Horton (R, NY), Rep. James Howard (D, NJ), Rep. William J. Hughes (D, NJ), Rep.
Andrew Jacobs, Jr. (D, IN), Rep. James Jeffords (R, VT), Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D, OH),
Rep. Barbara B. Kennelly (D, CT), Rep. Joseph Kolter (D, PA), Rep. Tom Lantos (D,
CA), Rep. Sander M. Levin (D, MI), Rep. Mel Levine (D, CA), Rep. Stan Lundine (D,
NY), Rep. Raymond McGrath (R, NY), Rep. Thomas Manton (D, NY), Rep. Edward J.
Markey (D, MA), Rep. Robert Matsui (D, CA), Rep. Nicholas Mavroules (D, MA), Rep.
Barbara Mikulsi (D, MD), Rep. Norman Mineta (D, CA), Rep. Parren J. Mitchell (D,
MD), Rep. Joe Moakley (D, MA), Rep. Alan Mollohan (D, WV), Rep. Robert J. Mrazek
(D, NY), Rep. Henry J. Nowak (D, NY), Rep. Stan Parris (R, VA), Rep. Melvin Price
(D, IL), Rep. Nick Joe Rahall, II (D, WV), Rep. Don Ritter (R, PA), Rep. Peter W.
Rodino, Jr. (D, NJ), Rep. Robert A. Roe (D, NJ), Rep. Charles Rose (D, NC), Rep.
Edward R. Roybal (D, CA), Rep. Martin Olav Sabo (D, MN), Rep. Charles E. Schumer
(D, NY), Rep. John Seiberling (D, OH), Rep. Fortney H. Stark (D, CA), Rep. Gerry E.
Studds (D, MA), Rep. Al Swift (D, WA), Rep. Robin Tallon (D, SC). Rep. Esteban
Torres (D, CA), Rep. Robert G. Torricelli (D, NJ), Rep. James Weaver (D, OR), Rep. G.
William Whitehurst (R, VA), Rep. Pat Williams (D, MT), Rep. Charles Wilson (D, TX).

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P.O. BOX 3719, WASHINGTON, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

bit Eye Irritation Test.

This brochure may not be reproduced. Free copies are available from the Society for Animal Protective Legislation on request.

 




THE COYOTE’S LAST STAND

By STATE SENATOR ARNOLD RIEDER (State of Montana)

A few hours after partaking of a satisfying meal on a por-
tion of a chunk of horse meat, the little prairie wolf feels a
twinge of pain deep in his belly. Moments later, he sets up a
frenzy of howls and shrieks of pain, vomiting and retching as
froth collects on his tightly-drawn lips. Blindly, the coyote
tries to run from his unknown assailant, through downfall and
thorn-infested thickets, bouncing off trees, and over piles of
rocks, running himself into complete and ﬁnal exhaustion. A
scant 6 to 8 hours after eating his meal, Mr. coyote is breath-
ing his last, racked by painful convulsions, as the most in-
humane poison ever conceived by man applies the “coup de
grace” to the gallant little animal. We wonder if this creature
of nature was not meant to have a fairer life. By a 25 to 1
ratio, the coyote’s deeds have been beneﬁcial to man. He has
reduced rodent numbers, has cleaned up domestic and wild
carrion, and has been a leading factor in keeping game herds
healthy.

The poison used to erase so-called “predators”, is scientiﬁc-
ally known as Sodium Fluoroacetate and commonly called
“1080”. It is tasteless, odorless, colorless, nonselective, and
has no known antidote. Ten-eighty poison is particularly lethal
to members of the canine family. Death is unduly violent and
an animal may go as far as 10 miles from the bait before dying.
The 1080 compound is dissolved in water and injected into
freshly killed horse meat with a syringe. Large chunks are
then placed at likely stations in the wilds, at the disposal of the
victims. The ﬁrst convulsions cause violent vomiting, and any
animal or bird which eats the vomitus or which feeds on the
dead animal will also become poisoned. Game authorities con-
tend that 1080 will infect as many as ﬁve or more animals in
a continuous chain before it loses its effectiveness. Numbered
among the victims of this deadly compound are bears, coyotes,
weasels, bobcats, mink, marten, badgers, dogs, and many birds,
mostly eagles and other carrion eaters. Dog owners have suf-
fered the greatest personal losses to this inhumane killer. Few
ranchers in the high mountain valleys of the West have failed
to lose one or more dogs to 1080.

This deadly poison is the principal instrument used by the
U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Predator Control Branch, in
the eradication of predators in the Western United States. The
cost of administering and carrying out this program, which
is shared by a cooperative State and Federal plan, is now in
the neighborhood of ﬁve million dollars annually.

Ten-eighty poison is now in its 17th year of wide-spread
use, having been initiated into use in 1947. It is believed that
90% of the coyotes were destroyed in the ﬁrst year of use,
and yet the poisoning goes on—in spite of the low level of
the coyote population, and the spending is higher than at any
time in the program’s history.

The woolgrowers of the Western States, who are the only
benefactors from this project, quite naturally are the main force
behind the continued and nearly universal use of this lethal
compound. In the past, predation has been a serious manage-
ment problem to members of the sheep industry. However,
studies conducted by State Fish and Game Departments and
other State agencies as well, indicate that losses have been
greatly exaggerated.

One beneﬁt which the Fish and Wildlife Service claims, is
that the deer and antelope have increased since the near eradi-
cation of the coyote. This is indeed a false assumption. The
Biological Survey made a study of the stomach analysis of

8,263 coyotes from the 17 Western States in the period 1931-
35. This study revealed that just 31/2% of the contents were
made ,up of deer meat. Antelope meat was found in only one
of every 200 stOmachs. The study also showed conclusively
that well over 50% of a coyote’s diet is made up of rodents,
predominately rabbits, gophers, and mice. Yet the FWS argues
that the coyote is not a major factor in rodent control, while
accusing him of being a severe menace to the deer and antelope
herds. There is every indication, further, that most of the
meat (deer and antelope) was carrion, because of the fact that
the peak was in February when many deer and antelope die
of starvation and disease, and in the fall when many animals
are wounded and lost by hunters. It is not hard to see that
deer and antelope have increased because of better game laws,
shorter hunting seasons, abolition of the market hunters, gen—
eral public edUcation, better law enforcement, the drop in
sheep numbers throughout the West, and favorable weather
conditions, rather than because of the drop in coyote numbers.
A perfect example of the fallibility of the FWS contention is
shown by the abundance of game found in our National Parks,
where predators are allowed to roam at will, unchecked by the
poisons, traps and guns of the Government trappers.

A rodent control program, using 1080-saturated grain, and
also sponsored by the FWS, has been expanding rapidly in
recent years. This project, like the predator program, is also
taking its toll of unintended victims, including birds, deer,
sheep, cattle, and even horses.

The waste in usable fur and sporting value of the animals
destroyed cannot be ignored. Millions of dollars are being
spent each year to satisfy the demand for more and better
hunting. At the same time, additional money is spent to de—
stroy a very challenging sport—that of hunting predators for
sport. Farmers and amateur trappers, who used to supplement
their income from the sale of furs, now ﬁnd that this venture
is most diﬂicult.

Last year, in the State of Montana alone, 2,026 poison
stations were scattered throughout various areas, and a total
of over 20,000 such placements were in operation throughout
the Western U. S. during the fall and winter months, creating
deep concern among sportsmen, outdoorsmen, and ranchers.
It is difﬁcult to ﬁnd supporters of the poisoning program any-
where but among members of the F WS or of the Woolgrowers.
Recently, a thirty-year employee of the FWS stated that 99%
of FWS employees, outside the Predator Control Branch, are
opposed to the widespread use of poison.

Numerous complaints have been lodged by the concerned
parties to their Congressmen, about the haphazard and slip-
shod methods employed by the FWS in the operation of this
setup. Those Congressmen who take the time to investigate
are assured by the Predator Control Branch, that their fears
are unfounded, that the program is in the hands of skilled and
dedicated people. This is indeed a distortion of the truth,
since the people who are handling the “slaughter by 1080” are
interested in little else than wholesale killing. Though the
FWS has set up rather strict procedures governing the placing
and handling of the poison, there are records available to show
that these regulations have not been rigidly followed. They
have been, and are presently, being constantly violated.

What kind of men are these who operate this poisoning pro-
gram, and who call themselves biologists? They are juniors,
assistants, associates, seniors, and chiefs. Biology, by deﬁni-
tion, means the science of life. If these men are going to call

Defenders of Wildlife News Bulletin—April 1964

 




themselves biologists, they had better change the deﬁnition,
for they have learned only the science of death—and the most
brutal kind of death, I might add. We must assume that their
rating is based on their ability to destroy. At present, so-
called predators are at an all-time low and would not be'a
problem if left alone for years to come. This is well indicated
by the Fish and Wildlife Service’s own meager ﬁgures. On one
report, they were so hard up for predators to list, that they
even included “unborn” predators destroyed.

It is fallacy to believe that every bobcat or coyote is lurking
in the shadows, waiting to prey on domestic stock. The preda-
tor’s natural prey happens to be rodents and other wild species.
When a particular coyote or bobcat is killing lambs or chickens,
he, by all means, should be exterminated. Then the trouble
will stop, and predation will resume its normal course in the
wild, where it is vitally needed.

I believe widespread and serious predator damage is a danger
signal; it is a sign that something has happened to throw normal
predation off balance. Most often, this is the result of unwise
or exploitive land use that destroys natural food, cover, and soil
fertility. It is another example of the fact that we cannot hope
to beneﬁt by working against nature, but only by understand-
ing and working with the great natural laws.

Predation is important to us. It is nature’s way of getting
rid of the weak, the stupid, the stunted, and the diseased ani-
mals. If such animals live to breed, the poor offspring they
produce would make the species continually more useless. Sick
animals or those of poor quality are of no value to man. Some
of their diseases may infect man or his livestock. Through
predation, the unﬁt are killed before they can reproduce; they
die before they can spread disease. Predation is nature’s way
of doing for the wild creatures what culling, sanitation, and
selective breeding do for domestic animals.

Any individual that has spent much time in the great out-
doors, has to believe in the story of creation. To any naturalist,
the story of creation and the reckless use of 1080 poison, are
just not compatible. In one short generation, we are threaten-
ing to destroy what it took nature millions of years to achieve.
Let’s look down the road beyond the curve, it is later than we
think.

(State Senator Arnold Rieder of Montana is Chairman of
the State Committee on Stockgrowing and Grazing and a ranch
owner himself of long experience.)

Note—Representative John D. Din‘gell’s H.R. 9037, Wild Pred-
atory Mammals Bill, should put an end to this indiscriminate
killing of valuable wildlife, which includes “predators”—at
the taxpayers’ expense. Please see page 19, “Wild Predatory
Mammals”.

 




.ZquhnakWU'qf'147iLdUé/é

809 DUPONT CIRCLE BUILDING
WASﬂNGTON & D.C.

THE FISHER

The fisher is a long slender animal about the size of a gray fox.
His eyes are small, ears broad and rounded, the head is broad and tapers
to a sharp muzzle, tail long and bushy, short legs, head and shoulders
gray with white tipped hairs, rest of body, feet and tail are dark brown
to black. He is about three feet in length and weighs from four and one
half pounds to ten lbs. Record weight is up to 18 pounds. .The females
are one half smaller.

Fishers are known by a variety of names such as the "black cat",
"fisher cat", "fisher marten", and several others. The animal is neither
“a fisherman nor any relation to the cat family. There is no explanation
as to why such names were given except that fishers have often been caught
in traps baited with fish and it was assumed that the animal fished for
part of his food.. Fishers are also highly nervous like some members of
the cat family.

The fisher lives in the low damp forests and wooded swamps. They den
up in hollow trees and logs, or holes in the ground and cavities of rocks.
They spend a great deal of time in tree tops where they can readily catch
squirrels, martens, birds and other animal life. Fishers are found in
New York state, through northern New England up into Southeastern Canada,
and from the MacKenzie River in Canada south through the Rocky Mountains
to northwestern Wyoming, and along the coastal area of the Sierras.

The fisher is the fastest tree traveling mammal in America. He can
also swim.if necessary. His movements from limb to limb and tree to tree
are surefooted and graceful. He descends head first with apparent ease.
He is a great traveler and does not settle in one place for long unless
he is feeding on a large carcass or raising youngsters.

The fisher is a predator and hunts mostly by night. If hungry enough
he will search for food in the daytime. He preys upon squirrels, rabbits,
mice, rats, marmots, porcupines, raccoons, chipmunks, beaver and eats dead
fish. He will also eat vegetables, fruit or nuts if small mammals are
unavailable. He usually hunts along stream banks and.marsh lands where
many of the small mammals are abundant.

The young are born in the early spring with usually one to four in
each litter. Only one litter per year is born. The young fishers are able
to leave the den and hunt with the mother at about three months of age. In
the fall of the year they are old enough to go their own way.

The fisher is too fast afoot to have many enemies. His greatest
enemy has been man who has trapped the animal relentlessly for his beautiful
silky fur which brings extremely high prices. The decline of this specie
is alarming and the animal will become extinct if not put on the protected
list soon.

Since the fisher is highly nervous he does not take well to captivity.

Recently the Oregon State Game Commission imported 2H fishers from
Canada to aid in combating the overpopulation of porcupines in the pine
forests of southern and eastern Oregon. Citizens of that state have been
requested not to kill or trap these animals in order that they can play their
natural role in the balance of nature.

 




     
  
 
   
   
    

 
       
  
    

         

 

 

I ‘/
H .i

x

' 33‘ \\

.‘ (

V~ §:~>\ .;\.\

  
 
  
 
 
    

  

~.
-

 

    

§

  
 
 
  
  
 
  

WI)!

'1 1'!“ “
A

L

> .. ’IV.
- gnu}, ’
ﬂ...-

.\

\\
\

‘D
I“
9;

 

 

  
  
  

q
I At

/

‘

\ 7’—
.I

f‘i‘k‘u

   

mm!

[-

 

Jt ,
‘1 v ‘
{wt
.- a V
'\\\I..

    

 
 
 

   

legend says n/‘s name comes from sfea/I'ng ﬁsh
usea’ 7‘0 ba/f marfen fraps. Or/g/naﬂg rangea’ fhrouqh
Coasf & Cascade Ranges; Sisk/gous 8 B/ue Mounfa/‘ns.
7770(4th 7‘0 be exﬁncf, 24/ were re/hr‘roa’ucea’ from , , _ R H,
BMW’s/7 Co/umb/a fn ear/g /?6/. Liberaﬁons made in a?“ "”

K/amaf/I (E Wa//o wa Counf/es. if.” \M‘W: f,
. ‘r’ I ‘3' -

 
     
       
    
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   

‘l\,

‘/|\" ,,,:C
\4 A; “‘

  

 

1 f0 4g0unq corn In ﬁo/low 7‘ree or
/oq den in March or Apr/Y. B/I'na’c? he/p/ess '//4
0% b/'r7‘/7,eges open offer 7 weeks) when I
3mon7‘ns o/a’ hunv‘ w/fh mofner for

food. Gesv‘aﬂon period has "d/sconﬁnue
developmen-f" fakes 338 ~ 358 days.

’ . W/
" an ~ i

  
    
  
  
 
   
   
   

 
  
 

[M
N'I’thig'h ‘ ‘ll
”“Uo’I/r . . " '
) Has a voracious appev‘h‘e ears v:
a/mosf ant/frying; Fish 8 porcupine {g}
among favor/re foods. Sfores a// h
surp/us food refurn/nq 7‘0 eaf [7‘ /afen

 

 

V

“l\\\

" iu‘t-t‘

‘ Head 3 snou/ders grayed wifn tan/fe—
TT ﬁppea’ hairs, resf of boo’qJ feef &‘ fai/
dark brown 7‘0 b/ack. Size ofa sma//
fox, head A? body 20325 ” {0/7 /3'1/.5;"w9h1‘.
473- /0/bs. Records -/o /8 /b5. Fema/es ’/2

size of ma/es.

 

 

 

Above sketches reprinted
through the courtesy of the
Oregon State Game Commission

 

GAME COMMISSIOI

   




 

Defender; of Wildlzfe

809 DUPONT CIRCLE BUILDING
WASHINGTON 6, D. C.

Mule deer range over a wide area of the western
United States and Canada. They roam the high mountain
areas from spring until late fall. Favorite foods such
as the wild onion, green grasses and weeds are plentiful
until early summer. Browsing on shrubs increases in the
late summer and fall. When available, shrubs make up a
major share of the diet in the winter. They like dogwood
sagebrush, buffaloberry, elderberry, raspberry, leaves
of oaks, aspens , willows and mountain ash.

 

ﬂUNDER MOST CIRCUMSTANCES
When winter approaches and snows begin to cover MULE DEER CAN DEFEND
the food supply, they must move to lower elevations, THEMSELVES FROM THE"!
sometimes traveling as far as 100 miles from the summer ENEM'Es 3" FWUNG ATTACKEPS
range. Life is not easy in the winter. Food is often W'T" THE“? SHARP ”°°V55v

scarce, and enemies of the deer are also hungry. Coyotes, .
cougars and bobcats prey upon weak and hungry animals, and sometimes kill even a healthy
one.

The mule deer gets his name from his large mule-like ears. In summer his coat is
a reddish brown, tail is rounded and white with a black tip, and he has whitish ear-
markings on the upper throat, inner ear and inside of legs. The forehead is dark brown,
the rump sports a large patch of white and the underparts are dark brown. The coat in
winter turns to dark gray. The males have branched antlers. Their size may vary
according to habitat, however they usually weigh 150 to 350 pounds and grow in length
from S to 6 feet, and 1:, feet high at the shoulders.

The fawns are born in late June or July. Most does have twins and these little
fellows are spotted, big-eyed and wobbly-legged. Within a month they can run strongly.
The does sometimes leave their young alone for short periods. Tourists and families
on picnics who discover a fawn in the woods think he has been deserted. This is almost
never the case. Leave the fawn where he is and the mother will return to claim him.

It is not only unnecessary to pick up fawns in the woods, but illegal as well in most
Sta-13850

The mule deer is alert, and have a very keen sense of smell
and eyesight. They defend their young from their enemies by
flailing attackers with their sharp hooves. *

Buck deer shed their antlers during the winter and grow

new ones in the spring and summer. While the new antlers are

{9 growing, the bucks live alone or in small groups.
‘ They must be careful not to
injure the soft antlers which
are covered with "velvet" . In
the fall they will have plenty
of time to push each other
around and fight for an
attractive mate.

   

 




                 
    

   
         
 

       

   
 

 

       

    
           
 

 

     

 

    

 
  

      

                   
 

      

       

 

   

   

 

'4‘”. m
w . 9N. i
. n, 9 .1 . . 9/ 9.1/1.1 44/.- . . 0
3. avid-.9 ........€..9 9... ,M. ,7....MéwwW c
.M I..- .ﬂ/Mfé 4; 9...... . x. ., ﬂ . e
. .. s UV .9 / /wr,w$¢//n§¢é/é/E /&- e M .. .m m
H / -. \9\ \ . . . ./ ... 4.. . _
, a... 2......- M . . G
. . . / § \\.\9 /¢/ 0
74/9/29. . n... . .4.-1....,z\ . , wm 6 w
M. a 8%; Z... . - 1 .- Z w
@V/yﬂ/llmﬂ/ﬂ .. @7141er9,,- . .99 , . ... .. .. / . m S
, 94”. WM. /' 1.. /I/ [flair/Ila 9... \\9. \ . .. ,. . . . 5 m . m
9/ .99.. .. .9- . .. g
9 4911 . . /II ‘ a e
M g. 9% .- m S. N .4. 9: o.
“9/.4 § KLJI 9/ I n O r... ._ ' a
01/. . \“ . . n 9i / Ir .JaP m $6 . . . 9.9 l\9.a9\9 // r m
4 ....- .21.. “c m 9”. nd mad n . 9. . .. H .m? m
w.m eihr. a rim .. .... . . R. f
6 ed m 9 a r - 9 e
0.0 emlmcasm . . ...II.9u/9/W.? v
m. a w mm h . w M . . . . 37Mnamﬁﬂwwﬂ/Mwuﬂ/ Mn .w
m .a M w + a w+ . .. /////;/Iim%u¢//w/¢ a
e e e .l a . é/WM’IlA/I’ ///a//’// l|I\\9\ .. S
ePerlmaamCms (99-39 . ., g
gsllmao/am. Jaw .. - ﬂ - in. .m
m.... 52.92% . e 99 .m w
IMwwmmrmred 5% % Q9 Mu m
e / mi .0 9e .. . . e e .9 D
flaw” eoar . .12“. 5/ I
ma mF wwﬁ BEP .1...- u.....9..m..9,_ . - . a. hmw Md. R
. numﬁﬂuugf M .499 .7 c v a n
59-... - 4...... .m wd w .
.59 r.- ﬂ/Iovr. 90”“ S n
, .mW Wk .5. .. Memedew o
9T9mhM . 9T H rd Z
9“ a m w m 5 w am a.»
.mrmmm 7m 5.5m! .9
r O 0/ I O
9” a.rl. o 9 P 0 n w e
H .W c....m9a.m .Mmklrbbﬂ II
.5 .r r ﬁnd n e o/ 9 r 9
my we 3de pwxwf. n a. §
or r I” a n q .. . r. 9 s a 0% r. o’ J.
d mun. e a TUCH r «u r. 7... 99 _ amt-“Ha k .
.. 9 .. ., n J . . a: . a ..._ o.n I
9.9. ......p¢ MWMV . a 0 W I” M e ”W x ‘// W «177/? -_ — W, I e [I S a
93/6,. . 2/6». 9T 50 //M/ dfhoe W
.v« +1, Puu 9m” uni, 2/. T “.29 o ,
.9. y mqwzm 9. am V . 9/... a mmoid
,9 r If n on. .
eﬁwseml M 09 u. .\|\9 \ meemd S
55.3 m Mm 1 3\9\\\ in... M
m n n e r at \
c . 90 9 . . x
m 9m. Wlmm+ //// .. \\m pm “.3 . \ W
. a .d s e e
aneraM M [MWM .. £43 . q r
.m 9.9m r we mmm Mm. aw. ﬂ... 99...... e
In.m/.W Cum 6.29 9W; 9m... . mm. xh 9.. 9
mg}. 9 9-,“.- w ”imam o m
Srelﬂzws \ 9 /.M9mﬂr)9n
IT “I e e 2
o’ ”d o’ f x y . . h. m 0 e V 4‘
s 9’ (1/ , u r 0.m:n e c
K Mb. W9w m n9/u9979 - 9.7/97 .mf w 5.4 Pa
WM. .. .9 . .99 ., ..., a
. “MW/4x 9. . . . .. B» d.” u .m m «9.... $.22. 5...... WM; ” m.
\. 96../%rh.9..///5/.1) .911)! yh .., .. ,. .. 2V1 VIM/n M. n S .mﬂ . [/3 \ me m. m.»
nuannwﬂm///wu/a./////W%M ,éy/x/W/ . . . . . ., M.. £ﬁ.m.,m wow. mww . .- 9w1...:./:dwm.wm
.. /V.’ .. . . 2. ,. ﬁr ., _ .. _ . .. ... 6 o 6 row ...._. 99.- - 2.. ”M ao
. 9 : 549/ :, . . .. . ..._ s . b s 9.13%, 9...”.97999.” .. . a
.. . . _ . . . . .,,./M////.,.z, 5/. w __ /. A 9 pm... m » 5w 0 .9...- ay. .... ... .5. . a e s m;
.. . . ....._.. . .. . . . 5/. . C o e s 3 .r m «VF.» ﬁ?...v¢5aa.u . I [emf n e u,
. . . , . , ,, 2, : 3 mm. WM on. m. .de 999 .w.va.....mﬁ.wwuﬂ.w..ﬁ . mmmam
.. . .. .9.. . wk, .. A r q , e . n 0 ﬂ 99.. [ti-9.9.... ..-.9\\.....vc\U ID [I e
._ _V 4/: mmmm “.9 r 9.... 3m;
.. . ,./¢.?. M. T a v a r 00 ”Zoe 9-1. _ “w ow}.
... .1? .._..... .99.... -. .... . . .. ./A .g. 4/1.? 9 99-... .l 85/3 e a .
...9. .9...- .. .. ...Ipﬁ9....,.._.-.9.9.L.. .. . .. ,..x.. 9......9 . . . M n m m 9a 9,99 . \_ B m a w w
”a _.....a.....9 «ﬂ! «9...: 9... /¢.....99n 9....-. 9.9V... .9... , _ ,. APL - g _ |9|L
..|’.a. up, at". .9... 7‘ .99“? ‘1‘..ﬁ ‘w....|\m.-Iv...l.v..u romamf-.d....ou......,...\.9. _... . a . .
a 4/... . ....a...,...(9. .... 3.3.939 9.2.9.... . , .
. v .. 97%.?» 6.99.99.99.99 9
.. .4. /. «a. .2, ,1-././.

 

 

 

 

 

 
 




