THE COST OF A SKIN.

BY J. HOWARD MOORE, CHICAGO, ILL.
' Author of “The Universal Kinship.”

Furs are luxuries, and it cannot be said in apology for the
wrongs done in obtaining them that they are essential to human
life. They are no more essential to human welfare than tooth—
picks or diamonds. Doing without them may cause incon—
venience sometimes, but it cannot cause anything worse. And
inconvenience, especially if it is largely imaginary, is a form of
distress not extreme enough to cause any civilized being to
commit crimes in order to avoid it. There are a great many
inconveniences in this inconvenient world. It is inconvenient
to do without our neighbor’s purse sometimes, and our neigh-
bor’s wife and wits, much more inconvenient than being deprived
of the death—harvest of the birds and quadrupeds. But the most
of us are able to stand these greater inconveniences, either
because we are educated to do so» or because we don’t like to
get mixed up with the club of public opinion and law. The time
will come in the evolution of human sympathy and understand-
ing when the same kindly club will hang over the birds and
quadrupeds as hangs over our neighbor now. Then we shall

 

 




 

2

refrain from burglarizing them no doubt with the same joy and
eagerness as that with which we keep our hands off our neigh— -
bor‘ now. In the present raw state of human nature, the “only
limit most men place to their sins is. that indicated by where
punishment begins.

Skins and deceased birds are not half so beautiful anyway as
ﬂowers, or ribbons, or velvets, or mohair. They are popular
because they are barbaric. They appeal. to the vulgarian. Our
ideas of art, like our impulses, and like human psycho-logy gen—
erally, are still largely in the savage stage of evolution. No one
but a vulgarian would attempt to adorn herself by putting the
dead bodies of birds on her head or mufﬂing her shoulders in
grinning weasels and dangling mink—tails. Indeed, to one. who
sees things as they are, in the full light of adult understanding,
a woman . rigged out in such cemeterial appurtenances is
repulsive. She is a concourse. of unnecessary funerals. She is
about as fascinating, about as choice and ingenious in her decora—
tions, as she would be embellished in a necklace of human scalps.
She should excite pity and contempt. She is a pathetic example
of a being trying to add to her charms by high crimes and mis—
demeanors and succeeding only in advertising her indifference
to fee-ling. I '

Of all the accessories gathered from every quarter of the earth
to garnish human vanity, furs are the most expensive; for in
no way does man show such complete indifference to the feelings
of his victims as he does in the fur trade. Fur-bearing animals,
many of them, are intelligent enough to require the exercise by
man of his highest cunning and perﬁdy to effect their capture.
Yet, in addition to death, they are compelled to undergo suffer—
ings so inhuman as to be utterly unjustified, even though the
proceeds of these Sacriﬁces were masses of living gold, instead
of a skin. I read the other day of an otter that was pursued by
a band of men and boys for four hours, when she gave birth to
two little ones, and the account stated that she 'was pursued for
two hours after that before she was ﬁnally killed.

The most of the skins used for furs are obtained by catching
their owners in traps, and death in such cases comes usually at
the close of hours or even of days of the most intense suffering
and terror. The principal device used by professional trappers




3

is the steel—trap, the most villanous instrument of arrest that
was ever invented by the human mind. It is not an uncommon
thing for the savage jaws of this monstrous instrument to bite
off the leg of their would—be captive at a single stroke. If the
leg is not completely amputated by the snap of the terrible steel,
it is likely to be so deeply cut as to encourage the animal to
gnaw or twist it off. This latter is the common mode of escape
of many animals. Trappers say that on an average one animal
out of every ﬁve caught has 'only three legs. A trapper told me
recently that he caught a muskrat the past winter that had only
one leg. The poor remnant was caught by the tail.

Suppose we human beings were hunted with traps by a race
of giants a. hundred feet high, very ingenious, and absolutely
without conscience so far as their treatment of us was con—
cerned. Suppose that in spite of all our vigilance we were con—
tinually falling into these traps, which were hidden all about us,
and compelled in order to escape to eat off our own arms or
legs. Suppose that eve-n then one out of every ﬁve of us was
so ill—starred as to be caught a second time, and ended up after
hours or days of unspeakable agony by having his head mashed
into a jelly by a big club. Suppose we were absolutely helpless
in the matter and that our victimizers had no higher purpose in
inﬂicting these ﬁendish outrages than to get a scalp or a jaw-
bone to dangle about their demoniacal necks. Suppose, ﬁnally,
in order to complete "the analogy, that these people imagined
themselves to be highly civilized and enlightened. I What sort
of an opinion do you think we would have in the course of ages
as to the real character of these people and of their ﬁtness to: be
the models and superintendents of a planet?

In order to guard against the escape of the captive by the
amputation of its own limb, trappers are advised by their guide-
books to use traps with small "'é‘ pans,” so that the limb of the
captive, coming directly in the center of the trap, will be clutched
close up to the body. No amount of self—mastication then can
free the unfortunate. Itis doomed. It may gnaw its fettered
foot, and, in the frenzy of its agony, break its teeth on the un—
yielding steel, but it can never get away.

The “ Spring-pole ” is another device used by trappers to pre—
vent the escape of their prey by self-mutilation, and at the same

 




vac
‘- (2m

\7 .2

Q
.- \_:\i‘ﬁ , ’
‘ ..
Q
i

3 49,4555
time insure it from destrtﬁﬁmﬁizy; oﬂ1er1passing animals. This
consists of a ﬂexiblelﬁﬁ'lé seY iii ;"the: ground-near the trap. The
upper end of the pole 1s bﬁtﬁdQWn and fastened in such a way
as to be liberated by any slight wrench. The chain of the trap
is fastened to the pole. And when the creature is caught, its
struggles to escape, which, we are told, “are often so- violent
as to break a stout trap or chain,” release the pole, and the trap
and prisoner are jerked intothe air and held there. Here the
unhappy captive must hang until it starves to death, or freezes,
or perishes from thirst or pain, or until the particular “ paragon ”
who carries on this accursed business comes along and confers
on it the favor of knocking out its brains, The poor creature
may have to hang in this distressing condition for a day or
two or even a week, suffering agonies no pen can describe,
including the pains of inﬂammation rendered many times more
excruciating by the thousand fruitless struggle-s of the distracted
sufferer toescape.

The ‘5 sliding—pole” is an arrangement forcausing captive-s
'to drown themselves, and the “dead—fall” is a baited log so
adjusted as to 'fall and crush the life out of any being unwary
enough to approach it for the proffered food.

I cannot express myself when I get to thinking about these
things—these terrible crimes that man is inﬂicting year after
year on millions of his poo-r, helpless brothers. I become so indig-
nant and desperate that I fee-1 like getting an ax and knocking
the whole planet to svmithereens. I am ashamed of the race of
beings to which I belong. It is so cruel and bigoted, so hypo-
critical, so soulless and insane. I’d rather be an insect'—— a bee
or a butterﬂy—and float in dim dreams among the wild ﬂowers 1
of summer than be a man and feel the wrongs and sufferings
of this wretched world.

[This paper was read by the author at the Annual Meeting of The American
Humane Association, Chicago, 111. ,November 15,1906 ]

 

. NOTE: Copies of this paper, and other humane literature, may be obtained
from The American Humane Association, Albany, N. Y.

 




