PIGEON SHOOTING FROM TRAPS‘.

AN OPEN LETTER TO THE PEOPLE OF OUR VARIOUS STATES ON A CERTAIN
SPECIES OF LEGALIZED CRUELTY.

By RALPH WALDO TRINE, a Director of the American Humane Education Society.

Brutality still lingers in some of our States. One form, and in some
States one form only, is still. sanctioned by law—the shooting, torturing and
mangling of live pigeons from traps under the guise of “sport.”

If two men still in the brute stage of development are caught causing two
dogs to ﬁght, they are sent to jail for six months. Similar punishment is given
those having a hand in cockﬁghting. Yet men who regard themselves as
superior to their fellows of the brute stage can take a hand in the wanton
slaughter, the torturing and maiming of thousands of helpless animals in a
single day, and nothing is done to them. Shall we legalize bullﬁghts, cock
and dog ﬁghts, for the idle pleasure of the brute element among us ? The better
sense in every community instantly cries out, “ No ! ” Then why permit this
great source of torture, suffering and brutality to remain legalized and un-
checked P

I witnessed one series of live-bird shoots not long ago in which nearly
twenty thousand pigeons were slaughtered in a single week. The conditions
there and generally are these: An exceedingly high grade of explosive ——nitro-
powder—is used in the shells; the distance is from twenty-seven to thirty yards,
less than a hundred feet; the tame pigeon is sprung up on a trap from under—
ground by a boy who attends to feeding them into the trap, and almost always
comes up in a dazed condition. The sportsman has his gun levelled and gives
word when he is ready, and he can use the second barrel of his gun if he misses
with his ﬁrst. So powerful is the charge that one can see a direct line reach.
ing from the barrel to the pigeon, and the shell wads can be seen covering the
ground for a considerable distance beyond the traps. Under these conditions
but few men with even a fair degree of practice, unless quite drunk, could fail
to bring down the bird, which has practically no show for its life. It is there-
fore not a legitimate test of marksmanship, but a cold-blooded or thoughtless,
brutal slaughter. Men, I am glad to say, who are entitled to the term “rpm/2‘s-
mm,” discourage and condemn it; their names do not appear on the same lists

1

 




    

 
 

with those in the brute stage of development, which are made up chieﬂy of two
classes, —— men who are hired by the year to go from place to place by various
powder and sporting goods manufacturing concerns to exhibit their wares, and
members of so-called gentlemen’s gun clubs, miscalled, very true, for no gen/[e-
mam will ever knowingly, for his own selﬁsh, senseless amusement, inﬂict pain
or torture upon a single helpless living creature. Gentlemen are made in a
different mould.

In most cases the pigeon is almost instantly killed, either riddled to pieces,
or it falls back a rufﬂed mass of feathers, struggles for a few seconds, gasps and
dies. If this were all, the case against live-bird shooting from traps would not
be so strong. But it is the case of those poor helpless birds which have merely
a wing broken or a beak or a leg shot away or are partially disembowelled, but
have vitality enough, aided by a strong breeze, to ﬂy beyond the bounds and
reach a distance from which they are never recovered, and there die in the
slow torture of pain or hunger or cold, or are eaten by rats, lying sometimes
for days before kind death deals with them more humanely and kindly than
even civilized human beings have dealt. I have seen these by the hundreds,
and they are a necessary part of every live-bird shoot; and after many of these
damnable exhibitions, for miles around and days after, large numbers of these
have been picked up dead.

A. gentleman living on Long Island, where shoots until recently took place
almost daily when the season permitted, has told me that he and his neighbors
have taken hundreds of dead birds off their roofs and out of. their eave
troughs, and frequently'they have had to wash off the blood that has run down
the sides of their houses and down their windows. They had protested and
sought in every imaginable way to have the nuisance abated, but could not
until the practice was driven from the State. We can understand their distress
and annoyance when we take into consideration the crack, crack of the guns
every few Seconds during the livelong day, and day after day, indicating to
those living in the vicinity that each time either a beautiful, harmless life was
being ruthlessly crushed out or that some of the birds might linger for days
in slow-dying agony. Thousands upon thousands of birds are fed into the
traps every year in our various States.

Although the statute sometimes provides that in each case the wounded
birds shall be killed as soon as they can be captured, the horrible suffering and
slow-dying torture of those not instantly killed can never be done away with
fully until the practice itself is done away with completely. For in the ﬁrst
place, although under protest, I have seen large numbers of pigeons shot from
the traps, I have never yet seen an honorable attempt made to comply with
this part of the statute. The men who engage in this practice are lacking in
a sense of honor when it comes to this. I mean simply this: a man who will
engage in this brutal business is so lacking in imagination or is so callous in
feeling and in sympathy, that he cares nothing for the agonies of the birds
whose suffering he causes, and how then can such a one be expected to com-
ply with this requirement of the statute, only so far as he is driven to it by
ofﬁcers actually on the ground? And when we remember how continually this
is going on, we can see how difﬁcult or impossible it is for the ofﬁcers of the
various humane societies to give their time up almost wholly to this matter.
Even if it were possible, the large numbers of “cripples” that get entirely out
of the bounds and away from sight must always continue.

What excuse is there for allowing this practice to go on P Merely this, a
twofold excuse: it furnishes a little idle amusement and excitement— the ex-
citement of gambling and betting —-- for a little group of thoughtless, brutal
men and women, and it adds a few thousand dollars each year to the proﬁts of’
various powder and sporting goods manufacturing concerns; while on the
other hand it disgraces the State, it gives pain to nine tenths, if not to ninety-
nine hundredths, of the people of the State, in addition to the untold suffer-
ing inﬂicted upon thousands of beautiful, innocent and helpless birds every

2

 




    

    

year. It is the only form of cruelty actually legalized in some of our States,
and it is now time, indeed ’way past time, for it to go.

We are not asking to have anything done in regard to trap shooting, a
thoroughly legitimate and commendable sport, for the inanimate target, the
clay pigeon, can be used just as well as the live bird, as it already is used by
many. We are simply asking that harmless live birds by the hundreds of
thousands be not used as targets to have their lives crushed out or be mangled
or torn to pieces. I have always contended, as have others, that the clay
pigeon is even a better test of marksmanship, and this indeed is evidenced by
the fact that the winner of the great tournament spoken of above, where nearly
twenty thousand birds were used up in a single week, the one who won the
great event in the match and thereby the silver cup and the $600 prize, was a
man who does not claim to be a live-bird shot, but who has used the clay
pigeon almost entirely.

If the present clay pigeon is not satisfactory, there is no reason why it
should not be perfected, or why something even better should not be found to
take its place. If these so-called sportsmen are not satisﬁed with this, we are
justiﬁed in the conclusion that the mere desire to “ kill something,” the ﬁend-
ish delight in crushing out the life Of some animate object, a life that they
are powerless to give back again, and a life that is as dear to these birds as
theirs is to them, and withal as useful, is at the bottom of the whole matter,
and this it is our right —— nay, even our absolute duty —— to protest against and
prevent. The effect also upon the hundreds of lads who are employed each
year to feed the birds into the traps and to club to death or wring the necks ~
of the wounded ones that fall within or near bounds, is something that the
State cannot well afford to overlook.

Clearly the practice must be abolished. It can be in each and every one
of our States if a few earnest people in each take the matter in hand- Many
will ask, “What can we do?” That is the chief purpose of this letter. Find
out ﬁrst just what the conditions are in your own State regarding the matter.
If the brutal practice is still permitted, have your member of the Legislature,
if he is one who will take an honest and active interest in the matter, intro-
duce a carefully and wisely drafted bill making the practice illegal. Should
your member be not of the type above described, then ﬁnd a man of wisdom,
heart and influence to take charge of the matter. If it has some one in both
the Assembly and Senate to take charge of it from the beginning, so much the
better. Then at the proper time bring the matter before your association,
club or organization, have it pass resolutions condemning the practice and
urging a passage of the bill, and see that the members from your district get
them. Fill the papers with protests against the brutal practice, give expression
to your views regarding the bill, and see that your members and any others
that you may know in the Legislature get marked c0pies of them. Circulate
petitions among your townspeople or among the people of your community,
have them taken note of by your papers, and then send them to various mem-
bers. Urge those about you also to take a hand in the matter.

If the members of your Legislature understand clearly and unmistakably
that the people of the State want such a bill passed, there is no one who will
dare to vote against it, whatever inﬂuences are brought to bear by the unscru-
pulous lobby manipulators that are always on hand.

Years ago in the State of Massachusetts the practice was made illegal.
There was a hard ﬁght made to retain it. The bill to abolish it was
opposed by a large number of the wealthy pigeon shooters. Some ﬁfty
of them appeared at the hearings and employed three prominent lawyers to
ﬁght it, and says the president of the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals: “We are glad to say that in spite of all the
efforts of these wealthy gentlemen and their three distinguished lawyers and
a majority report of the Senate Judiciary Committee against us we succeeded
in having the law enacted by a large majority, and we enjbrcea’z'z‘, and from

3




 

 

that day to this we have never heard of a live pigeon being shot from a trap
fo1 sport in Massachusetts.” This 13 as it should be, and this was many years
ago.

Up to the time of the last meeting of its Legislature the practice was still
sanctioned in the State of New York through an old statute passed over a
quarter of a century ago. Through the united efforts of two individuals inter-
ested along humane lines, a bill, which received the sanction of Governor Odell
and his promise to sign it if it reached him, but which was afterwa1ds changed,
was put into the hands of an able member In both the Assembly and Senate
It was reported favorably flom both houses and passed by a two- thirds vote
in the Senate, but through the efforts of a powerful and unscrupulous lobby
which concentrated its efforts upon the Assembly it was lost in that body by
two votes. This was during the closing days of the session of 1901. During
the» very early days of the following session the bill was again brought forward.
Through the powerful and effective aid of the press throughout the entire
State, through the medium of open letters to the people of the State which
were widely distributed and republished in full or in part by various papers
throughout the State, and through the general arousing of the people in various
ways, its demand for the passage of the bill became so great that it could no
longer be misunderstood, and it was quickly passed by an overwhelming major-
ity in both houses,—by a vote of 119 to 9 in the Assembly and a vote of
31 to 6 in the Senate,—~and the brutal and indefensible practice will never
be able again to raise its head in this great State. The same result can be
accomplished by a few earnest people in every State.

With a law against this practice in half a dozen or more States already,
and with the probable enactment of a similar statute in several more States
during their coming Legislature sessions, a strength and inﬂuence steadily
increasing is being gained for the cause, and the accession of each additional
State makes it all the easier for those that follow.

Ten minutes on the part of each person in any of our States would drive
this brutal, deplorable and indefensible practic: irom its borders, and would
prevent an almost indescribable amount of pain, suffering and tgréure in the
lives of hundreds of thousands of beautiful and helpless birds: ., m

May the time soon come when this brutal so- called spo? will be :aathing
of the past, as it should have been long before this. : i 4 n
f‘ f , 1:,
I” 1 {I «1: S
. 1. V31 ' 1

 

AN ACT £13911”?

To PREVENT THE SHOOTING OF LIVE PIGEONS, FOWL OR OTIELER BIiiijfs $011 AMUSE-
MENT OR AS A TEST OF SKILL 1N MARKS “NSHIP. C“

[The Massac/zusez‘z‘s 5165mm]

1 SECTION 1. Any person who keeps or uses a live pigeon, fowl or other bird for the
2 purpose of a target or to be shot at either for amusement or as a test of skill in marksman-
3 ship, or shoots at a bird kept or used as aforesaid, or is a party to such shooting, or leases
4 any building, room, ﬁeld or premises, or knowingly permits the use thereof, for the purpose
5, of such shooting, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be liable to a penalty of sixty
6 dollars for each violation of this act, and to an additional penalty of twenty-ﬁve dollars for
7 each pigeon, fowl or other bird shot at or killed in violation thereof. Nothing in this act
8 shall apply to the shooting of wild game.

9 This act shall take effect immediately.

 

This leaﬂet can be obtained of the Humane Education Committee, 29 Exchange Street, Room 20 (elevator
27, Exchange Street), Providence, R. 1. Price forty cents per hundred, postage paid. Twenty copies for ten cents,

postage paid.

«*2: -- . '

 




