g, _ .vv4. uuerL 11an 7 N a; W n
.Wash1ngton,,D.C. 20009

Date:: JUﬂ .15 1958

(N

3‘910Né1. RECO v—Extemzons of Remarks . J une 5, 1306* “ .
. .. BfACKB RD» LEGISLATION. les have been prepared and given wide dis- ‘
t . ' ' ,_ ____._ - ' ‘ tribution through news outlets of the Ohio 1
3 Department of Agriculture and Ohio Agri4
1] ‘ HON. JULIA BUTLER HANSEN , cultural Extension Service. These articslﬁs
' 7 ’ - ' ‘ have brought favorable comments about .e
r ’OF WASHINGTON ' . program throughout the State. Magazine
,IN- THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES articles concerning blackbird prOblems have
f x: . . Wednesday, June 5,. 1968 been prepared for the Farm Quarterly, Amer-
' ’51.“? ' , ican Fruit Grower, and the Michigan. Farmer.
"I ”Mrs' ”HANSEN 0f waShlngton- Mr- Six radio tapes and a television show were

;'T§;§Speaker, the subject of blackbird legis- prepared during the quarter. Talks dealing

.lati‘onhas been of great interest to the with .blackbirds were given to six farm,
groups, and interviews were given to re-

'I-ram leased to submit a letter in this porters from three newspapers. A 'brochure
réSpect pwhich reviews the progress explaining the use of the blackbird decoy

. . . . tra was re ared and distributed to fruit
mafdt:1 1n the eradication of blackbirds, groaers HI: ghio and Michigan.
. as o ows: ”

, Blackbird nesting surveys will be made
US. DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, in Ohio and Michigan during May, with the
FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, ' objective of learning the effect of low—volume
" Washington, D.C., May 31, 1968. applications of parathion on blackbird nest-
Wﬂon. JULIA BUTLER HANSEN, ” ing success in alfalfa ﬁelds. Parathion ap-
C’hairman, Subcommittee on Interior and plications will be made by agriculturalists to
Related Agencies Appropriations, House control alfalfa weevils.
of, Representatives, Washington, D.C'. Field baiting with DEC—1339 at staging 2'
DEAR MRS. HANSEN: In accordance with areaswas completed in April. Avitrol—treatedé;
instructions contained in House Report No. grain (a distress—producing chemical) is?
206, Department of the Interior and~ Re- being considered for application to an area
lated Agencies Appropriations bill, 1968, we of 150 square miles in Monroe County, Mich-
submit the following progress report on igan, and to an area of equal size in Musking—
the blackbird control program for the period um County, Ohio. Extension activities will
January through March 1968. An identical continue as in past quarters. Planning ses-
letter is being sent to the Honorable Carl sions are now under way to develop the de-
Hayden, Chairman, Committee on Appro- tails of the program for this summer and
priations, United States Senate. next winter.
Blackbird control activities during the If we can provide more information, please
past quarter have centered on completing call on us.
‘ '1967 assessments of corn damage in Ohio, Sincerely yours, -

 

 

controlling birds at roosting sites, ﬁeld bait- ABRAM V. TUNISON,

ing at staging areas near blackbird roosts, Acting Director.
‘ and extension work. .15 .
; Based on estimates from 14 counties, the
} projected redwing'blackbird damage to ﬁeld

corn in Ohio ran between $3 million and
’ $3.5 million in 1967. Losses ranged from
i
(

 

$1,000 in Perry County to $255,000 in San-
~-d11s_ky County. Erie, Ottawa, and Logan
Counties had damage in every ﬁeld sur-
’veyed. Damage was consideraly below that
[F in 1966, possibly because of the increased
‘ g number of sample ﬁelds and survey coun-
ties, coupled with a wider dispersal of dam-
age. Many landowners contacted during the
survey noted that the number of birds seen
during the year was less, but the distribu=
tion was wider. Assessments must be made
annually to. follow trends in damage and its
distribution. 1
Control activities were conducted. with
wetting agents at roosting sites and With ‘-
toxic baits at staging areas near roosts.
Wetting agents have been applied to three 1.
blackbird roosts in Ohio, one in Tennessee,
and one in 'G'eorgia. Experience. gained in 1
these tests has resulted in greatly improved
operational procedures to be followed next
winter in achieving signiﬁcant reductions
i of blackbirds. ; ' -
. Attempts were made to reduce numbers of
‘: birds through ﬁeld baiting with Compound
1.; DRC—1339 after blackbirds reappeared in
“£1 Ohio during early March. Staging areas near
[ five roosts were baited with DEC-1339-
treated cracked corn. Bait was well accepted
, at each site. We feel that this method of
,. reduction shows some promise if used in
. an operational manner. But beCause of ,po-
_ tential- hazards to game birds (mainly quail,
‘« pheasants; ducks, and doves), this material
-, . mtbeused only by trained personnel; and
f to fbegeﬁective, "moreka'reas must be treated
thanis now possiible‘with the available work ,
imarcTEQ-fgi‘ , ' j ‘ . ,
~13,gfairy};if?52150.;‘i1:351ai.:l<]:>ir,cls_.~ roosts have been 10--
= . inﬂame: in ‘qccbperation with County .

 

ea.» ’
Agriqnitqrale Agents3This information will
" Emblackbird eontr‘ol activities
' ff»map}‘-‘findicating the: locations
' depredaiins‘ biaeigbirde :mig-

5 ' t gmfglattqiqhied.

 

“E,“ _a' __ 1 2w.
2 jforyoui:

EX» be :15 '0 ion

 




111111211111, 111.111.1111 am
ﬁll-1A NEBR
111113111 1“;
i) 1.115 wt. 3i" 22'? 3‘51 539
Mix? 238 323338 @3wa
. . .1 1- '1"- KW‘

l

 

 

 

.1 " ' " i —Sketch by Henningson, Durham and Richardson.

Clay Center research center . . . Office-laboratory and adjoining laboratory. Other strue-j
' tures are not shown.

A

y. 1v

 

. 0} a" *ﬁ‘n-n,.

 

 

 

DeSIgn Okayl

18 Buildings to Cost;
Over $2 Million

. World-Herald WashingtOn Bureau,
Suite 1217 National Press Building.

The design of the new Meat
Ani _‘g Q11 Center at
Clay Center, Neb., has been
approved by the General Serv—
ices Administratmn

 

1112111,- HruSka that the con-
stmction cost of 18 buildings
providing more than 206 thou—
sand square feet of space is
estimated at between $2, 382, -
000 and $2,662,000.

"It said the main structures
Will be an office laboratory

11 u i l d 1 n g containing 60,170
Square feet and a windowles
animal laboratory with 18,803
square _.feet

The two- -story brick build-
‘ings will be connected by a
lowered walk.

..A inultiple- unit brick and
cedar apartment building and
a smaller house will be built
near by fOr the center’s staff.

vAnlmal barns and service
«gild111 s of rnetal construe-1

 

 

;,;,~,;.- 5,- sheep and swine. Addi-
g 1301131 facilities include a feed

 

 

 




 

CHICAGG
today
/ . , M . AMERICAN
AIWays on Top of the N
D; 429 052 SUN. 4341'

MAY 3 o 4973

U" 133
" x. E"? 3-3313)“




B

7
I

311 F 7’11 3.111 3.

{x

l'\«
«4.3
T

}' ['0 C‘

'1

I

n
L.-

0 C]

U

‘7

1' e
-3...

W”?
.L

‘
.' a”;
r

h
l

ff

”K.

I“! ‘r"?
L . L

" .

q».

{'3‘}

{we

‘ W": h

"is

r":
z
'3... .4... “d \ .le ya

3

i

f‘f". ”3. ’7; c2»
V3.1. \J ‘1 \,

.A—

r.

.n l _‘
‘\.J L33»

7 t1
'~J
.5.

(’1

a

V
.'

1

(’5 "f
”LED”!

us

I
V"

V“.

" ‘3 w r} 'gw
3Q pi 1.].

4»
L1

timwlg

C;
x

C

F} ,
9 L f: o

a“-
k,

:13. JCT
U

’1
i

I ”7.
.4 L
:31" «"1
{23.53

("4!
(3.). "I .3 .
if...
i
. U

4" \,
A _
U
r
0‘"

' i

.
1i
'7! .’\

1

‘n
ova?
”1
'~ .LE

3
l

r“ '55
I". y "" w; ‘r ....
LI .5} I 9,,
‘1

”asuvv

1 en
a,

7 3,.

i
W ,L

3.1

{11% ’7h
be P91

(:3 -1... k; :5,

a.

.f.
; M---

<;
a?

Ar

(

i

fr.r

ﬂ
\.- a

C;

litter

:5 ‘
o

i’.‘

, (”7' PIE

,3.
,u

8P6?

anﬂ

1,.
{TC

J

H“:
v‘ U U

:
st..-

("

Y

1,1

t"

1.5

1 @910

.r,

‘1
b

«4—1.

“Hwy )-7

3'
- “rWPQ )anmmmm’ WWWG::Q: ,3: m,
/ ..:".tT.r:-’;::» .» v

 




627 Environmental Protection Bill

as long as it is open on at least one side. This is to
ensure that the offence of littering could apply to
covered places on relevant land such as sports stadia,
bus stations or covered shopping precincts.

Amendment No. 175 irons out an untidiness
between subsections (1) and (3) of Clause 86. The
words “in the open air” in subsection (1) are not
needed given that subsection (3) deﬁnes the places to
which the clause applies. Amendments Nos. 177 to
184 redraft subsections (3) and (4) of Clause 86 so as
to be consistent with Amendment No. 172. I
commend the amendments to your Lordships. I beg to
move.

On Question, amendment agreed to.

[Amendment No. 173 had been withdrawn from the
illarshalled List]

Lord McIntosh of Haringey moved Amendment
No. 173A:

Page 93. line 47, at end insert:

(“(12A) The Secretary of State shall by Order in such areas
as he may designate for this purpose as urban areas apply the
provisions of this Part which apply to litter to any description
of droppings from a dog in all or any prescribed
circumstances. and with such modiﬁcations as appear to him
to be necessary, and the Order made under this subsection,
shall include a requirement that the owner or person at that
time in charge of the dog should immediately clear away such
droppings”). .

The noble Lord Said: My Lords. in moving this
amendment, shall speak also to Amendments Nos.
174, 174A and 1748. The ﬁrst two amendments are
tabled in my name and those of the noble Lords, Lord
Stanley of Alderley, Lord Ezra and Lord Monson,
whereas the last two are tabled in my name and that

of the noble Lord. Lord Stanley of Alderley.

With these amendments we return to the matter of
what I called “dog shit” in Committee. I do not
apologise for that fact. In a sense I was pleased that I
did so, although I ran the risk of widening the range
of acceptable parliamentary terms. However, at least
it drew attention to what is a very important aspect of
public health. Although there appear to be adequate
powers to cover the situation, that is not the case; and
there are not in fact adequate powers to deal with the
problem.

The amendments I moved in Committee were
defective in many ways. First. they frightened the
farmers because they did not apply only to dogs; they
could also have applied to farm animals. Secondly,
they were not adequately restricted to urban areas—I
shall deal with that problem in a moment —and they
certainly ran the risk of quite unnecessary controls in
unnecessary areas.

Our concern is quite clear. We are concerned with
the bulk of animals kept as domestic pets in urban
areas—that is, areas where the parks, the streets and
the pavements are places where large numbers of
children play. We believe that they ought to be
allowed to do so without risk to their health. The
proposals in the amendments apply to the droppings
from dogs which will now, by virtue of amendments
approved by your Lordships in Committee in the
summer. require to be registered. Therefore. the

325 LDZl/27 Job 4-5

[15 OCTOBER 1990]

 

 

 

Environmental Protection Bill 628

obstacles to our previous amendments—namely, that
there was no registration scheme which would enable
us to pin down the owners of dogs and that they were
too widely drawn in relation to the range of animals
and areas covered—have now been fully overcome.

However, there are one or two strange difﬁculties in
the matter. For example. when we wanted to deﬁne
“urban areas”, we found that there was no generally
accepted deﬁnition. It is not the area of an urban
district council as one may think and it is certainly
wider than a. metropuii-‘an area. Of course. there are
deﬁnitions which are well known to sociologists but it
appears that there are no such deﬁnitions which are
well known to the Government. Therefore. at the
beginning of Amendment No. 173A we have had to
state that the Secretary of State must designate urban
areas for this purpose in order to,

"apply the provisions of this Part”.

It is perhaps a clumsy procedure; but it is a provision
which may well turn out to be of use at a later stage.
I thought of having such a designation in the 30 mph
speed zone. However. that does not work because
there are speed limit zones of 40 mph and 30 mph in
urban areas and there are also pavements in those
zones. I therefore pass that buck with great pleasure to
the Government and leave it to them to make a
decision because they are much better qualiﬁed than I
am to deal with such matters.

There is also the problem of the deﬁnition of “dog
droppings” or “dog shit”. We have had to table

amendments to our own amendments: for example.
Amendment No. 174B gives power to the Secretary of
State to,

"apply the provisions of this Part which apply to litter to any
description of droppings from a dog in all or any prescribed
circumstances. and with such modiﬁcations as appear to him
to be necessary”.

That is the kind of provision which I tend to attack
from this Dispatch Box because it gives the Secretary
of State the power to do what he likes. However, it is
necessary in this situation because we are entering
what is after all a relatively new area of law. Perhaps
I should make clear in what sense it is a new area of
law.

Under existing laws there is no difﬁculty about a
local authority setting up a by-law. A by-law can
forbid dog drOppings. for example, in a specially
designated area of a park. and so on. However, the
problems with existing law and the reason why dog
shit is an offence against people—I do not mean an
offence in law—in our cities and towns is twofold.
First, there is no adequate deﬁnition of what is meant
by‘the words “dog shit”;"Amendment No. 173A would
provide such a deﬁnition. Secondly, and much more
important, there are no powers available which enable
immediate action to be taken. What we are
introducing here is an important principle which will
bring dog droppings under the litter provisions of the
Bill, rather than under statutory nuisance. In other
words. we are making it analogous to a litter offence
whereby, as in Westminster under the litter code, there
is a ﬁxed penalty ﬁne on the spot; or, analogous with
a parking offence where there is a ﬁxed ﬁne and where

 




629 Environmental Protection Bill
[LORD McINrosn or HARINGEY]

notice can be served on the person in charge of the

dog. In the latter case, such a notice would be a

ﬁxed-penalty notice and the ﬁne could be paid into a

court or at a ﬁxed penalty ofﬁce in the same way as

someone pays a parking ﬁne.

We must ensure that the law is clear and that it is
widely recognised that the provisions make it possible
for a local authority to enforce it on the spot without
unnecessary argument or unnecessary recourse to the
courts. We must also ensure it is well understood that
it is no longer acceptable for owners of dogs in urban
areas of this country to allow their dogs to foul the
pavements, the parks the streets and the public places.
That 15 the purpose of this series of amendments and
I commend them to the House. I beg to move.

Lord Stanley of Alderley: My Lords, as this is the
ﬁrst time that the noble Baroness, Lady Blatch, will be
responding to me on behalf of the Government in this
connection. perhaps I may warmly congratulate her
on her new appointment. I should like especially to
thank her and her department for the time and help
which they have extended to me in respect of the
amendments tabled in my name. I appreciate her
concern and thoroughness. I hope that we shall agree
on most issues. I also hope that she does not miss the
comfort of the Back-Benches too much.

In supporting this amendment, I have taken note of
what my noble friend Lord Hesketh said in
Committee. He said that it was not the Government's
intention to use Clause 85(13) to control farm animal
droppings, not least because they are likely to be so
controlled under the Road Traffic Act. Perhaps my
noble friend can conﬁrm that statement. At the same
time, I wonder whether she can tell the House whether
there are any circumstances in which this clause could
be used to control farm animal droppings; for
example, could it ever apply to private land, especially
if that land was in a litter control area? If the answer
is yes, obviously it could cause a few problems.

So far as concerns dog droppings, I ﬁnd myself

having to support the noble Lord, Lord McIntosh. I
cannot accept the remarks made by my noble friend
Lord Hesketh in Committee at col. 1657 on 27th June
1990. He said that if a dog fouls it is not the owner’s
responsibility as it is the dog which does the actual
dropping. I do not want to repeat the vexed question
of registration. However, one of its main purposes is
to bring home to the dog owner his or her
responsibility for his or her dog. I cannot seem to get
that message across to the Government. This is
another example of the Government ignoring it.
People should-be as responsible for their dogs as they
are for their children. The fact that I have four

[LORDS]

l
l
i
3
i
I
I
l

i

i

children and three dogs accounts for the number of

grey hairs that I have on my head.

The point made in Committee (at col. 1566) by my
noble friend Lord Hesketh was referred to by the
noble Lord, Lord McIntosh. He said that the problem
could be dealt with by local authority by-laws. He said

that the Home Secretary was looking at the scope of

the antifouling by-laws. I hope that my noble friend
will give us some idea of what they will be. Unless they

326 LDZII‘ZS Job 45’

Environmental Protection Bill 630

have the same effect as Amendment No. 1748, which
classes dog shit as litter, I shall be obliged to support
the noble Lord, Lord McIntosh, should he press the
amendment.

Lord Addington: My Lords, I give the support of
these Benches for the amendment. As someone who
has done a great deal of road running/jogging in urban
areas, I can say ﬁrmly that I am against the souvenirs
which our canine friends leave on the pavements
although my coach says that it improves my
sidestepping when I play rugby. Once again, we must
place the responsibility for the control of dogs, and
everything that goes with them. upon the owners.
Dogs are not designed for living in urban areas. If man
chooses to have a dog in an urban area. he must take
responsibility for it. The noble Lord. Lord Stanley,
put the case well. I hope that the amendment is
accepted.

Lord Monson: My Lords. I am fortunate enough to
live for most of the year in a local authority area which
a few years ago took strong measures against dog
fouling. The improvement in the quality of life since
has been startling. One would like to see the great
beneﬁts of the elimination of that nuisance extended
to all urban areas. for that reason, I warmly welcome
that amendment.

The Earl of Balfour: My Lords, I am worried about
one or two points contained in the amendment. First,
on the whole, I prefer the words on the face of the Bill
to those of the amendment. If a shepherd is taking
sheep along a road—I assume for the mome..t that the
amendment lS accepted—and the sheep make a mess
on the road, that does not matter. If his dog leaves
excreta on the road. the shepherd will commit an
offence. I do not see why dogs should be distinguished
and separated from horses, sheep. cattle or anything
else that uses the road.

Lord Parry: My Lords, with the pleasure that the
House is taking in using the vernacular, perhaps we
should change the consonant in the word “litter”.
When the control of a dog is in the hands of the owner,
then the owner is responsible for the dog. One could
have some system of endorsing the dog’s licence to
make it responsible and punish it. The serious point is
that more dogs roam the high streets and back streets
of Britain than sheep even though sheep tend to go in
ﬂocks of 50. Thousands of dogs roam the streets. It is
a foul menace and we must do something to clear it
up. The amendment emphasises that point. As soon as
it is brought to the attention of the owner of a roaming
dog that his dog has fouled the street or the pavement,
he becomes responsible. There is a vast problem with
which we must grapple. Although we are talking
about dogs on leashes. we must couple that with dogs
which roam.

Lord Mackie of Benshie: My Lords, I understand
that if farm animals foul the road, it is the farmer’s
responsibility to clean up the roads, and so I do not
know why dog owners should be any different.

Baroness Blatch: My Lords, I start by thanking my
noble friend for his general comments about my
appointment. It would be tempting fate too much to

 




631 Environmental Protection Bill

say that I miss the comfort of the Back-Benches. There
are occasionally moments when the Back-Benches
would be much more comfortable than standing at the
Dispatch Box.

Amendment No. 173A once again raises the issue
of dog fouling. I welcome the opportunity offered by
the debate to assure your Lordships that we are not
complacent about the issue. Fouling by dogs is not
just a nuisance; as has been said, it can be a serious
health hazard.

I can assure your Lordships that we intend (to use
the power in Clause 85(13) to ensure that under the
new litter duty local authorities and others will be
required, as part of that duty, to clear up dog faeces on
their land. To that extent. the amendment is
unnecessary.

As for extending the litter offence and requiring
owners to clear up dog mess in urban areas. we again
have no dispute with the intention of the amendment
but powers are already available to local authorities to
deal with the problem. Local no-fouling and
poop-scoop by-laws already exist in many local
authority areas. Other authorities may wish to
consider adopting such by-laws, as the noble Lord,
Lord Monson, said. The local authorities have it
within their remit to take considerable measures. We
hope that the passing of the Bill may give a new
impetus to that procedure. Those by-laws and related
ones are currently under review in order that we can
be certain that they are as effective as possible. My
right honourable friend the Home Secretary hopes
that he will be able to announce the outcome of the
review in the near future. I cannot anticipate that
announcement, but I understand that the proposed
new litter duty is being taken into account when
considering the availability of by-laws. Powers are
already available to all authorities. The word
“available” is most important in this context since we
believe that it is right that authorities should have the
ﬂexibility to consider introducing measures which are
appropriate for their locality. It would be extremely

difﬁcult to make an order covering diﬂ‘erent parts of

the country which oﬂered the same ﬂexibility.

As for Amendment 174, I can assure my noble
friend Lord Stanley who admits to having three
children and four dogs—I admit to having three
children and two dogs—that we do not intend to use
the Secretary of State’s power under Clause 85(13) to
designate farm animal droppings as refuse. There will
be no obligation on anybody under the new duty to
clear away farm animal droppings, even if the farm is
situated in a litter control area. I was impressed by the
point made about the farmer’s responsibility for
clearing up the road. This is only a general comment;
but by and large farm animals are not a problem. As
the noble Lord, Lord Parry. said, dogs cause the
greatest concern.

As noble Lords are probably aware, there has been
a long consultation period over the control of dogs.
That period has just ended. I hope that we shall be
able to make an announcement about the result of
that consultation before the Bill receives Royal
Assent. I almost hesitate to enter into a debate with

327 LDZl/29 Job 4-9

[15 OCTOBER 1990]

 

Environmental Protection Bill 632

my noble friend Lord Balfour about all the other
animals. I can remember with some pain the time
spent on the deﬁnition of horses, mules and other
animals. I shall leave the point by saying that the
amendment relates to dogs. On the basis of what I
have said, I hope that the noble Lord will feel able to
withdraw the amendment. The powers are available to
deal with the matter at local level. The objective that
the noble Lord wishes to achieve is achieved by
measures contained in the Bill and by the powers
available to local authorities.

Lord McIntosh of Haringey: My Lords, it is clear
that the noble Lord. Lord Stanley of Alderley, is one
up on the Minister in terms of numbers of children
and dogs. His opinions should have the weight of
seven as against the weight of ﬁve. I am sorry that we
have gone back to an issue. which is wrong and which
I believed had been cleared up in Committee. No one
denies that local authorities have the power and duty
to clean up dog mess from the streets. That is not the
point at issue. Everyone knows that local authorities
are supposed to keep their streets and pavements clean
although it is much more difﬁcult to keep playing
ﬁelds and parks clear of dog shit, but that is not the
issue.

In Amendment No. 173A we are ensuring
something different. We are ensuring that it is the duty
of the dog owner (the person in control of the dog) to
clean up. We do so on the basis that the gap between
an offence being committed and the time when the
local authority gets round to clearing it up——if it ever
does—is exactly the time when the danger to health
occurs. It is important that a mess caused by dog shit
in our streets. in our. parks, on our playing ﬁelds or
wherever the public has access should be cleared up
straight away. The only way to achieve that is by what
is called a pooper-scooper law.

Aside from that point, I do not believe that any of
the arguments have any force against the amend-
ments. The noble Earl, Lord Balfour, is concerned
about ﬂocks of sheep. There are not that many sheep
in urban areas. It is not that much of a problem. Even
if it were, the noble Lord, Lord Mackie of Benshie, has
already made clear that there should be no less an
obligation on dog owners than there is already upon
farmers. Clearly, as a farmer, he does not believe it to
be unreasonable to have this control.

The amendment will achieve in a practical way,
with such safeguards as are necessary—for guide dogs,
for example —that there will be immediate action to
clean up dog droppings in public places in our cities
and towns. The Government have given no indication
to us, Other than the promise of a review by the Home
Secretary, that there is any reason why there should
not be legislation now on this issue.

The Earl of Balfour: My Lords, I apologise for
interrupting, but does not Clause 85(13) cover this
point? It covers all animals, not just dogs, although it
includes dogs.

Lord McIntosh of Haringey: My Lords, I do not
know whether the noble Earl is speaking to my
Amendment No. 173A and the other amendments in

 




LONDON VWASHINGTON ‘ BRUSSELS

 

2»
o"-.‘:“‘.T.-' . -_
' ilk» I; II." [W .a ,qu3
. ll . .. . .. i. .
I' ElilTiEIL:iLb 3]; Iii}; V .-. - C.
,- l} I‘ll-I‘LM‘E?| . . I 7/77

NITUHING SERVICES

29 Tuﬁon Street Westminster London SW1P 30L
Telephone 071 222 5024 Fax 071 222 0265

EXTRACT FROM

3'5.

7,, . n
. age} igg“

‘8‘».

IiJAJNHSJXJZI)
IEI()IJEHEE(3!?1U()ll1)63

Column Reference ézqu-‘S (l’

 

633 Environmental Protection Bill
[LORD MCINTOSH or HARINGEY]

the names of other noble Lords. They refer only to
dogs in urban areas. There is no reference to other
animals in these amendments. We took good care not
to repeat the delightful arguments which the noble
Viscount. Lord Mountgarret, for example. introduced
at Committee stage.

These are simple, clear amendments. They
overcome successfully all the objections that were
raised at Committee stage. They are capable of being
enforced in a way which can only be made effective in
the litter part of an environmental protection Bill.
They could not be achieved by a review of by-laws
because the by-laws could not be imposed on local
authorities in the way the litter code can be imposed
on them. If we are to get our streets and public places
clean I see no alternative to putting these amendments
on the face of this statute so that we will not be
dependent on any future promises about by-law
reviews. I commend the amendment to the House.

6.3 pm.

On Questien, ‘Nhether the said a nendment (No.
173A) shall be agreed to?

Their Lordships divided: Contents, 67; Not-
Contents, 111.

Division No. 2

C ONTENTS

[LORDS]

Addington. L. [Tel/en]
Ailesbury, M.

Attiee. E.

Birk. B.

Broadbridge, L.
Carmichael of Kelvingrove. L.
Carter, L.

Cledwyn of Penrhos. L.
Clinton Davis. L.

Cocks of Hartcliﬂ’e. L.
Craigavon. V.

David, B.

Dean of Beswick. L.
Dormand of Easington, L.
Ennals, L.

Ewart-Biggs. B.

Falkland, V.

Gallacher, L.

Galpern, L.

Gladwyn. L.

Graham of Edmonton, L.
[ Teller. ]

Greenway, L.

Grey. E.

Hampton. L.

Hatch of Lusby, L.
Holme of Cheltenham. L.
Houghton of Sowerby, L.
Howie of Troon. L.

Jeger, B , ”A
John-Mackie. L.
Kilbracken, L.

Listowel, L.

Llewelyn Davies of Hastoe, B.

McIntosh of Haringey, L.
g Mackie of Benshie, L.
i Mason of Barnsley, L.
i Meston, L.

E Monk Bretton. L.
Monson. L.
Munster, E.
Nelson. E.
Newall. L.
Nicol, B.
Norrie, L.
Northﬁeld, L.
Onslow, E.
Parry, L.
Pitt of Hampstead, L.
Rochester, L.

Ross of Newport, L.
Saltoun of Abemethy, Ly.
Seear. B.
Stanley of Alderley, L.
Stedman, B.
Stoddart of Swindon, L.
Strabolgi, L.
Taylor of Blackburn. L.
Thurlow, L.
Tordoﬂ‘. L.
Underhill, L.
Walpole. L.
Wedderburn of Charlton, L.
White, B.
Williams of Elvel. L.

I Lloyd of Hampstead. L.
i

 

Wise, L.

NOT-CONTENT S

Aldington. L.

Allerton, L.

Ampthill. L.

Arran, E.

Astor, V.

Auckland. L.

Balfour. E.

Belhaven and Stenton, L.

328 LDZlESO lob 4.12

Beloff. L.

Belstead, L.

Blatch, B.

Boardman. L.
Borthwick, L.
Boyd-Carpenter, L.
Brabazon of Tara. L.
Brougham and Vaux. L.

 

Winchilsea and Nottingham, E.

Environmental Protection Bill

Lawrence, L. ..
Lindsey and Abingdon, E.
Liverpool, E. -
Long, V. [ Teller. ]

Lucas of Chilworth, L.
McColl of DulWich. L.
Mackay of Clashfern, L.
Macleod of Bone. B.
Malmesbury, E.
Mancroft, L.

Margadale, L.

Marshall of Leeds. L.
Merrivaie. L.

Mersey, V.

Mills, V.

Mountevans. L.
Mowbray and Stourton, L.
Murton of Lindisfarne. L.
Norfolk. D.
Northbourne. L.

Orkney. E.

Orr-Ewing, L.

Oxfuird. V.

Pender. L.

Penrhyn. L.

Platt of Writtle. B.

Pym, L.

Reay, L.

Rees, L.

Renton. L.

Renwick. L.

Rodney, L.

Seebohm, L.

Selkirk. E.

Strange, B.

Strathclyde, L.
Strathmore and Kinghome, E.
Hooper, B. Thomas of Gwydir, L.
Howe. E. I Torphichen. L.
Hylton-Foster. B. i 'i‘ranmire. L.

Jenkin of Roding, L. ‘ Trumpington. B.
Johnston of Rockport, L. l Ullswater. V.

Killearn. L. 5 Vaux of Harrowden, L.
Kimball. L. { Wade of Chorlton. L.
Kinnoull, E. | Wyatt of Weeford. L.
Knollys. V. Wynford. L.

lane of Horsell. L. 1 Young, B.

Lauderdale, E.

Resolved in’ the negative,
disagreed to accordingly.

Butterworth, L.

Byron, L.

Caldecote, V.

Campbell of Alloway, L.
Campbell of Croy, L.
Carnegy of Lour. B.
Carnock, L.

Carr of Hadley, L.
Cavendish of Fumess. L.
Cawley, L.

Coleraine, L.

Colwyn, L.

Consran‘tine oi' Stanrnore, L.
Cranbrook, E.
Cumberlege, B.

Darcy (de Knaythl. B.
Davidson, V. [ Teller. /
Denham. L.

Derwent, L.

Dormer. L.

Eccles of Moulton. B.
Eden of Winton. L.
Ellenborough, L.

Elles. B.

Elliot of Harwood. B.
Faithfull, B.

Fanshawe of Richmond, L.
Ferret‘s, E.

Flather, B.

Fraser of Kilmorack, L.
Gray of Contin. L.
Hacking, L.

Halsbury, E.
Harmar-Nicholls. L.
Henley, L.

Hives. L.

Holderness, L.

 

and amendment

6.10 pm.
[Amendments Nos. 174, 174A and 1743 not moved]
Clause 86 [Oﬂence of leaving litter]:
Baroness Blatch moved Amendment No. 175:
Page 94, line 7, leave out (“in the open air”) and insert
(“to which this section applies”).
On Question, amendment agreed to.

Lord Stanley of Alderley moved Amendment No.
176:

Page 94, line 8, at end insert:

(“(lA) Subject to subsection (2) below a person shall be
guilty of an offence under this section if he recklessly
distributes any thing in such a way as is likely to lead to the
subsequent defacement by litter of any place in the open
air."). .

The noble Lord said: My Lords, the purpose of this
amendment is to clarify the meaning of Clause 86(1).
1 wish to establish what the position is when handbills
—for example handbills advertising goods, services or
events—are placed under windscreen wipers. This
often occurs in car parks at agricultural shows. Is it the
duty of the car owner to collect this material? If he

 




 

 

I \~ 6B Magazine Gap Towers
3 * 15 Magazine Gap Road
Hong Kong

May 22, 1986
Ms. Christine Stevens
The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
1686 34th Street N.W
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens,

We are a group of concerned people, whose pets have experienced a six
months’ quarantine and question its necessity and validity in Hong Kong.

We understand you are an active defender of animal rights. We are hoping
you can advise us in effectively eliminating the law, or at the very least,
shortening the length of time and improving the standards.

Even though the Hong Kong Ordinance is based on British law, the UK does
not recognize HK quarantine. When a family had their dog in HK quarantine
for three months, they were suddenly transferred to the UK. The dog
repeated quarantine receiving no credit for the time spent incarcerated in
the HK kennels. There is great inconsistency in applying the law to all
animals. For example, one family’s pet rat was exempt but not their dog
and cat. Another family was required to quarantine their three cats but not
their pet monkey.

Although the government has provided guidelines for the conditions of the
three quarantine kennels, there is minimal concern for the well being of
the animals. During the hot and humid summer months the kennels are
inadequately ventilated. There is not acceptable heating during winter. The
dogs and cats are not exercised at all except by the owners if they visit.

The diet is inadequate, and water levels in bowls are not monitored. In
some cases the animals share in common the same food plates and water
bowls. No soap or disinfectant is used when cleaning kennels. Rat droppings
are a common occurrence. Cages are in such close proximity that dogs can

urinate into a neighboring kennel, and spittle from a barking dog or his-
sing cat can easily spread communicable diseases. Cat cages in one kennel

measure only 2 feet by 2 feet. There is no concerted effort to eliminate
flea and tick infestation.

Rabies cannot be effectively combatted in Hong Kong. There is no physical
barrier on the border with China, a country where rabies is endemic. It is
virtually impossible to control the natural migration of wild and domestic
animals. There are no controls over animals accompanying fishermen from
mainland China. The only known cases of rabies in HK have come directly
from China. No cases of rabies have ever been detected in any of the three
quarantine kennels.

As a group interested in creating humane conditions for animals coming into
HK, we hope that you can provide information and guidance.

Sincerely,

 

Ms. A.L.F. Page
Administrative Assistant
Animal Protection Alliance

 

 




imEFuCE

B, C, INTERNATIONAL

Vancouver,
May, 1986

Dear Friends:

Lifeforce is pleased to bring you up-to-date on some of the very
important projects on which we have been working.

CANADIAN CRUELTY INVESTIGATION

 

As a result of a Lifeforce investigation at the University of
British Columbia's Faculty of Medicine (at Vancouver General
Hospital) on October 31, 1985, supervisor Jan van den Broek
and researchers Dr. W. R. E. Jamieson and Dr. Gary A. Quamme
have each been charged with three counts of cruelty to animals
under the Criminal Code of Canada.

The defendants are scheduled to appear in B. C. Provincial

Court, Room #102, 222 Main Street, Vancouver, at 9:00 am, May 30th.
The matter is set to proceed as a private prosecution and will

be prosecuted by Vancouver lawyer P. Michael Bolton.

AMERICAN CRUELTY INVESTIGATION

 

As a result of an extensive investigation of a U. S. research
laboratory, Lifeforce has sent a report to the funding agency of
the National Institute of Health. We will keep you informed about
the unprecedented steps that have been taken to improve the
research system in the United States.

CANADIAN CRUELTY TO ANIMAL LAWS

 

Lifeforce has been asked by the Law Reform Commission to review
their draft "Offences Against Animals" which addresses changes and
revisions in the Criminal Code of Canada's Cruelty to Animals
Sections. We believe that legal protection is the first step

in obtaining the over—all long-sought protection of animal rights.
In most cases now, legislation legitimizes the exploitation of
animals and does more to protect the exploiters than the victims.

ANIMAL RIGHTS IN B. C. SCIENCE COURSE

 

A new "Science and Technology" course for grade 11 in B. C. will
incorporate a discussion on experimenting on animals. Lifeforce
has supplied some of the background material which factually
depicts the failure of vivisection to provide benefits for animals
and peOple. The pilot course will start this fall.

LIFEFORCE VANCOUVER, Box 3117, Main Post Office, Vancouver, Canada, V68 3X6, T01. (60") 299-2822

LIFEFORCE LOS ANCELES, BOX 69193, West Hollywood, CA, 90060, Tel. (213) 270-0050 .
UFEFORCE SAN FRANCISCO, Box 210350, San Francisco, CA, 90121, Ton. (1415) 205 0090 LIFEFORCEI:ANONPROFIT.TAX-IXEHPTonomaunou,

 




"STOP DONATING TO CRUELTY" (see enclosed card)

 

Lifeforce is continuing our campaign to create public awareness

of donations to charities being used to fund cruel, unnecessary
experiments. Over 20,000 postcards have been sent to two B. C.
charities. When fund-raising agencies become aware of public
opposition, Lifeforce will propose that they include in their
grant applications regulations re or prohibitions of animal
experiments. For the sake Of both humans and animals, vivisection
must be abolished. PLEASE SEND IN THE POST CARD!

STANLEY PARK ZOO

 

Some of the Lifeforce recommendations to provide for the
behavioural needs of primates and other animals have been imple-
mented at the Stanley Park Zoo in Vancouver. Anti-boredom devices
have been installed which allow the monkeys to forage for food

as they do in the wild. Other suggestions, such as hutches for
privacy for the monkeys, will also be developed.

SAVE THE BABY ELEPHANTS (see enclosed petition)

 

The Tynehead Zoological Society (TZS) is attempting to exploit
two Thailand baby elephants in order to acquire publicity and
donations to build a $100 million zoo in B. C. TZS has no space,
no funds and no expertise to provide a humane environment for
the elephants. These intelligent, social mammals should not be
separated from their families and companions in Thailand. We
must let them be. At the time of preparation of this newsletter
we understand that the federal government will not issue the
necessary permits to allow entry of the elephants. However, in
order to ensure this, PLEASE ASK YOUR FRIENDS TO FILL OUT THE
ENCLOSED PETITION AND RETURN TO LIFEFORCE! '

Lifeforce urges you to send in the postcard and fill out the
petition. As well, you can help us increase our membership by
asking a friend to join us.

We greatly appreciate whatever form of support you choose to give
us in our ongoing endeavours to develop a respect for all life.

you!

uwMCHm

Peter Hamilton
Executive Director

 




>._.._m3m0 O._. 02_._.<ZOD n_O._.m

 

 

 

 

 

thEF—Mn—xw ._<_>__Z< ”Dm<N<I I._.._<m_._ ,..

 




TO: SHAUGHNESSY HOSPITAL HERITAGE FUND

Experiments on animals are part of a medical fraud that
jeopardizes both humans and animals. Thousands of animals
will be subjected to unnecessary, unethical experiments in
new research laboratories which have been built at
Shaughnessy Hospital.

This is bad science! Animals who are kept in stressful condi-
tions have abnormal body functions which can invalidate the
tests. More important major biological and anatomical dif-
ferences between species create misleading, unreliable
results.

Vivisection wastes research funds! We must implement
existing safe medical procedures while developing new,
improved, humane research methods!

I will not make any donations to the Shaughnessy Hospital
Heritage Fund and I will urge others to stop their financial
support until you guarantee that only in-vitro (non-animal)
experiments will be conducted in your research laboratories.

SIGNATURE

 

ADDRESS

 

CITY PROVJCODE

 

PHOTOS:

‘6 LlFEFORCE/Peter Hamilton

 

 

 

SHAUGHNESSY HOSPITAL
HERITAGE FUND

4500 Oak Street,
Vancouver, B.C.

V6H 3N1

Handicapped people and others have formed organizations in order to stop the harm caused by

Vivisection.

These kittens are victims of Vivisection: theirspinal cords have been severed and their legs crippled.

For further information contact:

LIFEFORCE VANCOUVER, Box 3117, Main Post Office, Vancouver, B.C. VBB 3X6 Phone: (604) 299-2822.

 




WW 0“ 4..

A N I M A L

VAN

F O R

 

E U R O G R O UJP W E L F A R E
Liaison with European Institutions
17 Square Marie Louise, Bte 6
1040 Brussels
Tel: 231 1388

Liaison with Animal Welfare Organisations
c/o RSPCA, Causeway, HORSHAM, West Sussex RH12 IHG
Tel: England (0)403 64181

B U L L E T I N
ON
EUROGROUP ACTIVITIES
AND
CURRENT DEVELOPMENTS IN EUROPEAN ANIMAL WELFARE

 

Spring 1988

 

 

Produced by the Ministry of
Agriculture, it should bring Spanish
legislation into line with the
requirements of the EEC directive on
animal experimentation due to come

EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT
APPROVES DRAFT BUDGET

On Thursday 14 April the European

Parliament adopted almost
unanimously an amendment to the
Community Budget for the 1988
financial year reinstating Article
668 on "Animal Welfare and
Protection". This Article provides
a total of ECU 510,000, to be
devoted partly to specific animal
welfare projects administered
through Eurogroup for animal
welfare, and partly to the financing
of measures administered by the
Commission aimed at reducing the
number of animals used for
experimental purposes.

The efforts of Eurogroup's Member
Organisations and the Scottish
Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals in lobbying their
national Members of the European
Parliament to support this amendment
played an important part in its
success.

ANIMAL EXPERIMENTATION
Spain

governing .the use of
animals for experimental purposes
was published in the Official
Journal in Madrid on 19 March 1988.

A decree

into force in November next year.
Belgium

New Belgian .legislation, which
includes some animal experimentation
measures alongside more general
welfare considerations, was produced
in August 1986. However, the order
required for its implementation is
still awaited. This was delayed by
the Belgian elections.

INTERNATIONAL STUDENT CONGRESS

An' International Student Congress is
to be held on animal experimentation
in Higher Education from 6 - 8 May
1988. Organised in conjunction with
the Nederlandse Vereniging tot
Bescherming van Dieren (Eurogroup's
Member Organisation ' for the
Netherlands), it will take place in
Bergen aan Zee, near Amsterdam,
uniting students from a number of EEC
countries who_ wish to explore and
encourage alternatives to the use of
animals for dissection or
experimentation in university science
courses.

Consisting of a series of lectures
and workshops, the Congress will

 




conclude with the presentation of a
declaration by the student delegates
to the Director of Eurogroup, Mr Ian
Ferguson, for submission to the
Environment" Directorate of the
European Commission.

'BROWN BEAR WORKSHOP

The Council of Europe is to hold a.

workshop from 18 — 20 May on the
situation and protection of the brown
bear in Europe. It will take place
in the Principality of Asturias,
Northern Spain, a region inhabited by
the largest remaining bear population
on Spanish territory.

ECOPFA

The 4th European Conference on the
Protection of Farm Animals (ECOPFA)
is to be held in Brussels on 24 and
25 May. This year the Conference will
be opened by Mr Frans Andriessen,
Commissioner for Agriculture in the
European Community.‘ The agenda
includes the welfare testing of
animal husbandry systems, bovine
somatotropin and the marketing of
food produced by humane methods.

BELGIANS PROTEST OVER
FROGS IN TRANSIT

The President of the Association
Nationale de Sociétés- de Protection
Animale (Eurogroup's Belgian Member
Organisation) has protested to the
Belgian Minister with responsibility
for transport over the condition of
two shipments of live frogs in
transit through Brussels airport.

The first consignment passed through
on 14 March en route from Cairo to
-Geneva and consisted of some 18000
marsh frogs, many of which had died
in the course of the journey, packed
in 169 wooden boxes size 9 x 30 x 52
cm. The frogs in the second
consignment, packed without moisture
in 150 wicker containers, were also
destined for Geneva. Eurogroup is
therefore making further inquiries
through its Swiss animal welfare
contacts.

.guidelines are

Guidelines for the transport of
animals, including amphibians, have

. been laid down by the Secretariat of

the Convention on International Trade
in _ Endangered Species (this
Convention is implemented in the EEC
by Regulation 3626). These
accepted by the
International Air Transport
Association, to which most airlines
belong, and apply to all species,
endangered or not.

EUROPEAN CONVENTION FOR
THE PROTECTION OF PET ANIMALS

Since it was opened for signature on
13 November 1987, the European
C0nvention for the Protection of Pet
Animals has been signed by eight
countries, namely Belgium, Denmark,
Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the
Netherlands, Norway and Portugal. Of
these, Norway is still the only
country to ‘have ratified the
Convention, and she did so in full
with effect from 1 February 1988.

The United Kingdom Government has
begun its consultation procedure on
tail-docking prior to making a
decision by the autumn on whether to
ratify the Convention in full. The
Government of the Netherlands is also
considering whether or not to
implement Article 10.1.a to ban
tail-docking.

BULL FIGHTING IN PORTUGAL

Moves pin the Portuguese National
Assembly to reconsider the killing of
bulls in Portuguese arenas have been
dropped. ' The existing regulations
banning contests to the death
therefore remain unchanged.

BERN CONVENTION

Eurogroup is still awaiting replies
to 'the questionnaire attached to the
last bulletin on methods of killing
or capturing animals banned by the
Bern Convention. However,
information previously received from
Spain indicates that nets and lime
are sold in street markets in Madrid.

 




The Report prepared by Mr Hemmo
Muntingh MEP On the implementation
of the Bern Convention within the
EEC is to be discussed at the April
meeting of the European Parliament's
Environment Committee in Brussels.

' WOLVES IN EUROPE

The Environment Committee of the
European Parliament has also asked
Luxembourg MEP Mrs 'Marcelle
Lentz-Cornette to draw up a report
on the protection of wild animals in
danger of extinction within the
European .Community. Eurogroup's
Liaison Officer for Portugal,
Mr Robert Lyle, has been asked to
assist by providing information
relating to wolves. » Mr Lyle is an
active member of Grupo Lobo, an
organisation dedicated to the
conservation of this species.

In the autumn Grupo Lobo expressed
concern at the' reintroduction of
wolf hunting in Portugal. To date,
the Ministry of the Environment has
only issued one hunting permit in
response to local complaints
alleging , damage done by wolves.
However, Grupo Lobo feel that the
’present climate of restraint will be
more fully tested in the autumn.
Portugal claims to have taken out a
reservation under Article 9 of the
Bern Convention in respect of the
wolf which is listed on Appendix II
(strictly protected fauna).

RSPCA ZOO SURVEY

In February the RSPCA published the
conclusions and recommendations
arising from its survey of British
zoos. In the United Kingdom zoos
-are licensed under legislation which
came into effect in 1984 and governs
accommodation and care of the

animals along with public safety.
' Local government authorities are
responsible for inspecting zoos in
their areas and for issuing licences
which may be conditional. The RSPCA
survey revealed that some zoos were
still keeping animals in cramped or
unstimulating accommddation 'and
applied poor standards of care and
cleaning. The report went on to

,beach
/ continued loss of endangered species

”of,

recommend that inspection of zoos
should .be carried out by teams which
included personnel from outside the
200 industry.

MINISTERIAL VISITS IN MADRID

During the first week of February
1988 the Director of Eurogroup,
Mr Ian Ferguson, undertook a brief
visit to Spain. Whilst in Madrid he
was able to meet representatives of
the Ministry of Agriculture, the
Ministry of the Interior, the
Ministry of Culture, and the
Institute para la Conservacién de la
Naturaleza (ICONA), the government-
sponsored' organisation responsible
for wildlife and conservation in
Spain.

The Deputy Director for Animal Health
at the Ministry of Agriculture
confirmed the enactment of a decree
with effect from 1 January 1988 to
align Spanish law with the
requirements of the EEC Directive on
the preslaughter stunning of animals
in abattoirs.

Mr Ferguson's discussions with ICONA
included the use of chimpanzees by
photographers,: “ and '“hthe

such as bears and wolves.
SPANISH REGIONS ACT 0N FIESTAS

Spanish regional authorities in
Malaga, Cuenca,mmToledo_ and “Granada‘
d?€“”?§36¥téa to ‘Bavé“ acted to 9&2.
animal cruelty during Wfiestas. The
spanish Ministry w“ofwéultur’éwhas also
initiated ~ its own study on
traditional fiesta practices.

VISIT T0 BUCKINGHAM PALACE

On 17 February; the Director of
Eurogroup, - Mr Ian Ferguson,
accompanied Mr Madron Seligman MEP,
Chairman of the European
Parliamentary Intergroup on animal
welfare, when he visited the Keeper
of the Privy Purse at Buckingham
Palace. A similar meeting had taken
place in 1987 as a result of a
request . from the Palace for
information on the abuse of a donkey

 




1-4-

during the annual fiesta held at
Villanueva de la Vera in Spain.

In the course of this year's
meeting, Mr Seligman and Mr Ferguson
were able to bring the Palace up to
date on animal welfare activities in
the European Parliament..

INVITATION FROM INTERGROUP TO
HRH THE PRINCE OF WALES

A letter has been sent by the
Chairman of the European
Parliamentary Intergroup, Mr Madron
Seligman MEP, inviting HRH the
Prince of Wales to attend a future
session of 'the Intergroup in
Strasbourg. The invitation followed
discussion at the February
Intergroup meeting of a letter,
circulated by Mrs Vera Squarcialupi
MEP, concerning the Prince‘s visit
to Italy the previous November and

the examp l e M§§L.-..QLA9£Q198 Publiﬁ.

figures on”i§sues such as huntiﬁgi”‘

”mm-«v W
N“ N...“ u‘._

Buckingham Palace has replied that
the invitation willw be chnsidered
when the Princelg" diary fofw“EEE‘
second half of the year is decided

in June.

VISIT TO GREECE

Towards the end of February the
Director of EurogrOup, Mr Ian
Ferguson, made his first visit to
meet representatives of the Hellenic
Animal Welfare Society, which
represents Eurogroup in Greece.
This small but professional Society
has purchased land on which to build
an animal vwelfare centre and is in
the process of raising funds to
begin building. In June the Society
is to send a member of its staff to
the United Kingdom, where he will
Join the RSPCA's training course for
animal welfare inspectors.

In the course of Mr Ferguson's
visit, the Hellenic Animal Welfare
Society arranged meetings with the
Mayor of Athens, the Ministry of
Civilisation ‘and Letters and the
Ministry of Agriculture. The
representative of the Ministry of

Civilisation and Letters expressed
the view that pressure must come from
the European Community to encourage
the establishment and enforcement of
modern legislation for general animal
welfare in Greece.

Discussions with veterinary
representatives of the Ministry of
Agriculture indicated that a decree
to comply with the EEC directive on
the use of animals for scientific
purposes was to be prepared, although
relatively little work of the kind
covered by the directive took place
in Greece. The question of
implementation of the EEC Directive
on preslaughter stunning. was also
raised. " '

GREEK INFORMATION MEETING

This was organised by the Hellenic
Animal Welfare Society and took place
on Wednesday 24 February 1988 during
Mr Ferguson's visit. It was attended
by some 380 people and included
representatives from seven Greek
organisations with an interest in
animal welfare. A lively discussion
centred on the need for greater
cooperation between Greek animal
welfare organisations, and the
suggestion was made that a round-'
table conference should be arranged.
The meeting concluded on a note of
general optimism.

UNITED KINGDOM INFORMATION
MEETING

The RSPCA held an information meeting
for United Kingdom animal welfare
organisations on Tuesday 22 March
1988. Representatives from twenty
animal welfare and conservation'
groups attended. The meeting heard a
report on developments in the
European Parliament and the progress
made ‘by EEC -Member States ,towards
implementation of the animal
experimentation directive. Subsequent
discussion ranged over a wide variety
of subjects including whaling and the
work of the Council of Europe. The
next United Kingdom information
meeting is planned for Tuesday 22
November 1988.

 




w Q?»
\

‘//U/{)Caj

_/

ﬁ/x
“3Q NEW CATALAN LAW

On 17 February 1988, the autonomous
regional Parliament of Cataluﬂa
unanimously adopted a new law for
the general welfare of animals.
Eurogroup's Spanish Member
Organisation, the Federacién
Espaﬁola de Sociedades‘ Protectoras
de Animales y Plantas (FESPAP),
played a part in consultations on
the draft text, and Sra 'Dolores
Marsans Comas, President of FESPAP,

was invited to observe the final,

Parliamentary debate and vote.

The law was scheduled to come into
force within 20 days of its
publication in the Catalan Official
Journal, that is to say, by 18 March
1988. It does not cover animal

experimentation, f3? “which géparate,

measures vare"t0” be framed by the
Generalitat (Catalan Government) by
1992. The definition of pet animals
in Annex I of the new law is
'restricted to dogs and cats.

Provisions

Responsibility for administering the
provisions of the new law rests with
the Department of Agriculture and
the local authorities, who may make
use of the facilities offered by
approved animal welfare
organisations. They may also
appoint animal welfare societies to
carry out an inspection and
monitoring role on their behalf.

Under the new legislation, all dogs
must be registered with the local
authorities and should wear a
permanent form of identification.
Unidentified and unaccompanied
animals will be deemed to be
strays. The local authorities are
to be responsible for collecting
stray and abandoned animals and may

destroy or sterilise and rehome them«

if they are unclaimed within a set
period.

Basic standards, including an
obligation to keep proper records
and to provide veterinary care, are
imposed on animal homes and refuges.

- 5

.— J

Premises where animals are offered
for sale.must also be registered.

Owners' responsibilities towards
their pets are set out, and cruelty
to a dog or cat is punishable by a

rfine of between 10,000 and 2,500,000

pesetas according to the gravity of

gthe offence. The animal can also be
lconfiscated.

‘ There is a general prohibition on the

l.

I

giving of animals as prizes, rewards
or free gifts, and the sale of

,animals to children under fourteen.

Cockfighting and' dogfighting are
specifically outlawed, whilst fiestas
are covered by “Article 4.1, which
bans the use of animals in
entertainments, contests and other
activities liable to cause suffering,
or where the animal is the object of
ridicule or unnatural treatment, or
which are liable to give public
offence. Bullfights are excluded
from this Article, provided that they
are held in arenas which were in
existence at the time the law came
into force. Effectively this means
that portable arenas and arenas bu11t_
subseqdéntly cannot be used ““ '

,_ v, . “a...

N“ w~~~ -

Annex II of the Catalan law lists
indigenous wildlife species which are
to be protected. This list includes
species which overwinter or pass
through Cataluﬂa, together with
marines species found ' along the
Catalan coast. ProVision is made for
the establishment of wildlife
reserves. The circumstances under
which protected species may be taken
are specified (18, captive breeding
programmes, reintroduction to other
areas). ~

The sale and use of Japanese nets and
of leghold or spring traps, and the
use of air rifles are banned for the
W
taking or hunting of any animal.

The Catalan legislation also makes
its own specific commitment to
international agreements such as
CITES and the Bern Convention to
which Spain as a whole is party.

 




FUR LABELLING FOR UK crows, starlings, jays and magpies in

view of the damage they caused. Of

The Honourable Alan Clark, United the remaining complaints, the first
Kingdom Minister of State for Trade, concerned the protection of eggs and
has announced his intention of nests. Existing French legislation
introducing regulations to label (the Code Rural) only offered
furs of. certain origin entering the protection to the eggs and nests of
UK. The prop0sed, order would game birds during the close season.
require prominent labelling of The Commission claimed that such
garments made from the fur of protection should be accorded all
species commonly caught in leg-hold year round in order to conform with
traps. Mail order advertisements Article 5b ofﬁthe Directive and this
would also have to state the origin was upheld 'in the opinion given by

of .such furs. The regulation will the presiding Advocate General of the
be known as the "Trades Description Court.
(Fur) (Marking) Order 1988". ‘

 

French law had also failed to
PROTECTION OF ANIMALS - incorporate bird species native to
(AMENDMENT) BILL the European Community as a whole but
. not necessarily to France. It
This draft legislation, to be . therefore did not offer protection to
debated by the House of Commons on \all migratory‘ species or to non-
22 April, contains two amendments to gnative species which might be
existing United Kingdom legislation transported, kept or traded on French
against cruelty to animals. If territory. '
passed, it will mean that a person
{convicted once of cruelty to any The Commission's final complaint
animal can be disqualified from concerned French decrees dating from
.ownership of that or other animals. 1982 (after the expiry of the period
Secondly, it will make the simple \for implementing the birds directive)
action of attending a dog fight an permitting the use of lime for
offence with a maximum fine of catching thrushes and nets for taking
£1000. ilarks. Both these methods of capture
are specifically banned by the.
WILD BIRDS DIRECTIVE ‘ «directive because of their non—
HEARINGS AGAINST FRANCE CONCLUDE selective nature. France claimed
I that their use was traditioﬁarwandmi
On 4 February, the European Court invoked social reasonS‘Tbr retaining .
heard the complaint brought by the them, claimiﬁiwmfﬁenright to do so in
-Commission of the European accordance with "Article 9‘ of the
:Communities against France for Directive which allows for exceptions
'non-implementation of the EEC to be made under_strict conditions to

Directive on the conservation of the general protective regulations.
wild birds. '

 

,However, the Court's opinion was that

Since proceedings were first tradition did not constitute grounds‘
-instituted, France had modified her for granting such exceptions and that
legislation in' December 1984 to non-selective methods like netting
annul a previous order which had ; and liming could never be reconciled
'permitted the hunting of E with the strict controls required
turtledoves, and again in June 1987 . Eunder Article 9. In September 1987
to amend the list of birds which may EFrench law was modified to remedy
' be hunted to conform with Annex II 3this situation, but the Commission's
of the Directive. The French had lcomplaint against France was upheld.
previously claimed the right, in 1because the law was amended after the
accordance with Article 9 of the expiry of the time allowed for
Directive, to permit the hunting of gintroducing legislation to conform

a
l
l
‘5
4
i

gwith the Directive.
l

 




Thursday 19 May 1988

Tuesday 24/Wednesday 25 May 1988

//,;eSaturday 9 July 1988

Friday 2l/Saturday 22 October 1988

Tuesday 22 November 1988

_7_V

DATES TO NOTE
Seance Académique, HOtel de Ville,
Bruxelles - 125 Years of Belgian
Animal Welfare

4th European Conference on the
Protection of Farm Animals, Brussels

Eurogroup Executive Committee
Eurogroup Plenary Session, Brussels

United Kingdom Information Meeting

I R G Ferguson
Director of European Liaison

 

 

Member Organisations are requested to submit items of news or information
for inclusion in this bulletin to the United Kingdom Office of Eurogroup.

 

 

del/rc/c.reps eurb5/19.4.88

 




 

The Sydney Morning Herald, Wednesday, May 14,1986
m

 

MaSSacre Of 100, 000

kangaroos

By PILITA CLARK

The NSW National Parks and
3 Wildlife Service is investigating an
illegal kangaroo shooting racket in
which up to l00,000 kangaroo skins
may have been exported.

The operation was run from
remote camps in western NSW. It is
understood the animals were shot for
their skins only and carcasses were
left to rot on the ground.

The assistant director (wildlife) of
y the service, Dr Jack Giles, said

yesterday the operation was the
‘ second biggest his department had
' known.

“The ﬁrst one led to the royal
commission into the meat industry,”
he said. “I would have no idea how
much money was involved [in the
latest operation] but I would have
thought it would involve between
50,000 and 100,000 skins.

“Those are the sort of numbers that
would have made it a worthwhile
exercise.

“We believe there were shooters
operating in NSW and Queensland
who were taking skins into bush
camps and then getting those skins
together in Queensland, where we
believe they were being illegally
tagged and laundered.

“At a minimum there were four
people involved. I believe one was a
licensed trapper in NSW and one a
licensed dealer in Queensland.

 

suspected

“it’s been very hard to get around
the edges of it because it was done in
such remote country. We searched by
aircraft for the place where the camp
is in NSW."

He said the operation was proba»
bly brought about by unusual circum~
stances last year where culling quotas
were low and skin prices were high.

“Queensland shot its quota of red
kangaroos and wallaroos, I think, in
August. We had to close down in
December, about four weeks early.

“A lot of guys got caught because
they had arranged forward some
orders and they were bound by
contract to those orders and they
couldn‘t ﬁll them.“

Dr Giles said that in normal
circumstances there was no incentive
to shoot kangaroos illegally for their
skins because the quotas were high
and prices consequently lower.

He said the operation possibly no
longer operated because of a drop in
prices for kangaroo skins, but the
service was still investigating to ﬁnd
those responsible.

Dr Giles revealed the investigation
while addressing the Senate Select
Committee on Animal Welfare in
Sydney yesterday.

The committee is expected to bring
down its report on kangaroo manage-
ment later this year after receiving
more than 500 submissions.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

WGRLD LEAGUE for PRUTEI STIQN of ANIMALS
MemsdiigmGdﬁsélvmgﬁw midrib

D; F. Ford,
Unit 12,
73 Burns Bay Road,
LANE COVE, N . {3 . iii . ZOC/ Ci
17th May, 1986.
Mrs. Christine Stevens,
President,
inims l Welfare Institute,
P.0. BOX 3650,
WASHINGTON, D.0. 20007

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

A short letter to enclose with our Annual Report and
trusting this finds you well. I haven't received any communication
from the Animal Welfare Institute or from you since your letter,
December 9, 198). {rag%d;. llaevﬂaf AﬁﬂaoQL£ eéaaaw-2696wtzﬂlad M)

By airmail late December, the steel jawed trap submission
as sent to you and am wondering if you received it. Jus t thou_ght there
may he ive been something 'original' in it which may be of use —- so much
of the information was from your source...

As you will see by our An 2,.ual Report - still battling here
and seem to be getting nowhere re Dingo/traps/furs. A few religious
feathers have been ruffled over my reference to the fur advertisement
in the Wesley Central Mission bulletin — but it is a subject I feel
strongly about. Must confess that until about 20 years ago, it gave
me pleasure to wear furs (not the expensive ones..) because 'everyone'
said ranch~bred fur bearing animals were treated kindly..... so am trying
to make amends for past thoughtlessness and 'vanity'

The Senate Select Committee on Animal Welfare seams to be
making little progress —~ it is now unlikely to make a decision on the
kangaroo issue until September at the earliest. General wildlife will
be considered in 1987 .. it is such a slow process and t, The Chairman,
Senator George Georges (a good me n) has been reprimanded by the Labor
Party and has had to stand down from the Party for 3 months (for voting
againstt lie Lanor government on El ’ ssue). He was the only original
member of the 5 member com:.:nittee ~ the other 4 are no lon< fer members of
parliament.

Hoping to hear from you in the not too distant future,
With good wishes,

Sincerely,

MQC>62 971 (C

‘l‘

/

a/tc’MA/f sax /ﬂV~ﬁ¢’¢¢c‘v‘ 2,1446%: (5.7/1;an

7 45¢ng #4” R gistered under the Charitable Collections Act No. 2835 5:?” ~ g % .3 3,33
\§\ 49A:( ‘5‘ <ﬁ“~§€%¢€2ﬁ-—~ geaJAEaK”C“ /£&;£JZLJ(1 4~§ZJ?4:’M 626 vlgxé
x (We ()Adﬂ'féﬁ if 59:1;7/ fé‘! (\cﬁwsc (417 ’f l/

 




“OUR
N EGLECTED

TRUST"

A SERMON

Preached by the Rev. H. E. Rowland,
Minister of the Uniting Church in Australia

in the
Mathison Congregational Church, Croydon, N.S.w.,_
in 1954 in support of a Campaign for Anti-Cruelty
to Animals, and Revised and Reprinted 1988.

 




"OUR N EGLECTED
TRUST"

“A" not tihe spat-ruins snlb for than farthings,

anh not one of them is forgotten before @011."
LUKE 1-2.5

One of the outstanding characteristics of the
Christian God is that He is a God who cares.
His care is extended not only to humankind,
but to all creatures great and small, for as the
hymn says —- "the Lord God made them all."

Two pictures, among others, of God's care for
animals and birds are recalled from the Bible.

Jonah was sent to call the people of Nineveh
away from evil ways. Reluctantly he did so,
and they repented and found the forgiveness of
God.

Jonah was greatly grieved that his mission
had been successful, and God had shown His
pity for the people, and the writer of this very
wonderful story concludes by putting into God's
mouth these words -- "And should not I spare
Nineveh that great city wherein are more than
six score thousand persons...and (listen) much
cattle." We See God's pity and fatherly care
not only for the people but for the cattle.

During one of His many interesting discourses
Jesus emphasised God's care for His children.
He likened His care for them to His care for
the sparrows, and said "you are of more value
than many sparrows" — but notice how wonder—
fully He speaks of God's care for these little
birds which we so often shoot, or at all events
wish to Jericho. He said -- "Are not five
sparrows sold for two farthings and not one of

1.

 

 




them is forgotten by God." Sparrows were sold
at two a farthing. If you took two farthings'
worth, instead of getting four you were given
five - one was, thrown in for nothing; and the
point Jesus makes here in speaking of the infin-
ite care of God for bird life is that not even
this one - this one that has no market value at
all - ever strays beyond His love and care.

God's love for animals is a very lovely thing.

Animals care for animals. Think of the care
of the sheep for its lamb, a cow for its calf, a
dog for its pups. Sadhu Sundar Singh, the Ind—
ian mystic, used to tell of a bush fire that
threatened a tree in which Was a bird's nest.
Fire fighters tried to save the tree - but all to
no purpose, and then they saw the mother bird
hovering over the nest in which were her young.
They expected her to fly away and leave them
to their fate - but to their surprise she flew
into the nest, spread her wings over the young
birds to protect them, and was burnt to death
with them — all because of her care for them.

 

An animal's care for an animal is a very
touching thing.

Animals care for human beings — and I suppose
the outstanding illustration of this is the dog,
and what an amazing array of stories there are
to illustrate this fact, and we have almost a
proverb in the phrase - "A dog is a man's best
friend."

 

People, or rather perhaps, some people, care
for animals - and we know of the care that is

 

 

 

given to a horse for example.

When God created the world He made man
second in command. The writer of the Book of
Genesis pictures God as saying at the time of
Creation - "Let us makeman in our own image
...and let them have dominion over fish and cat-
tle, and over all the earth"- notice that it was
man made in the image of the God who cares,

2.

L’ﬁ’a—b"—-A




who was given the responsible position of second
in command. God placed the care of His anim-
als in trust with men with the idea in mind that
they would care for them as He did Himself -
butwe find today this trust has been betrayed
to a great extent, and so the care of animals

in this regard has become one of our neglected
trusts.

Christians, like their God, are people who
care, and all who have the Christian outlook on
this matter are concerned that this trusteeship
which God has placed in our hands should be ful—
filled to the greatest possible extent.

Many illustrations abound of this neglected
trust, amongst these is the widespread cruelty
to animals that abounds. One thinks of the
trapping of animals, that has become a trade in
fact, and it was such that drew forth the rem—
ark ~ "How can a woman wear a trapped fur,
knowing that every hair on that skin has vibrated
with prolonged torture," Over 30,000,000 animals
are trapped, gassed, shot, clubbed or poisoned
each year for the selfish vanity and status sym-
bol of fur coats. '

The words of George Marsh from his poem,
"In the Zoo" underline the cruelty that we un-
wittingly perhaps, have become a party to —

Exiles. they tread their narrow bounds
behind the iron bars

For this the ruthless hand of man each
God—made creature mars.

But, oh. what hungry eyes they raise up
to the friendly stars.

One of the barbarous things that makes the
Old Testament distasteful to us in many parts
is the enormous amount of blood that was shed
by bulls, goats and sheep in the sacrifices that
the people of Israel made to, ironically, the God
who cares even for sparrows, throughout the
period covered in the Old Testament, say, 2,000
years from the time of Abraham.

3.

 

 




 

 

 

 

We heave a sigh of relief as we think in
these terms: We don't trap animals, we are-
n't directors of the Zoo, nor do we practice
vivisection, and the period of the Old Testa-
ment was a preChristian - and in many res-
pects an unChristian era. We live in an en—
lightened age. We do, but nevertheless, there

are things that come along that eclipse the 1)
light of this so-called modern age, and they
are things for which we may not be directly "

responsible, but nevertheless, ones in which we
acquiesce - either through complacency or
sheer ignorance, and they are coming under
our notice very forcibly, at this time.

There is the steel jawed trap invented some
300 years ago, and is still in use in some coun—
tries, including Australia. The World League
for the Protection of Animals points out that
"all kinds of creatures, protected and endangered
species, are caught in its crushing and painful
grip". The League further reminds us that ”if
your hand was jammed for days in a car door,
you would know how a trapped animal feels".

On sale in the United Kingdom today is a
dog collar with a cruel electric device that
gives the dog wearing it an electric shock each
time it barks. When it was suggested that one
be imported into Australia and placed around
the neck of a certain person there was a pre-
dictable reaction. Let us use our influence to
see that this electrical dog collar is banned,
and not allowed to be imported into this land.

Our humanity, if we do not claim to be
Christian, and the God who cares even for the
sparrow that has no commercial value if we are,
as well as the Christian's humanity, call us to '
a crusade in this twentieth century to remove
needless suffering from the lot of these animals,
who are our neglected trust.




You ask, "what can we do?" Here are a

. number of suggestions.

1. We Can Adopt the Aims and Objectives of
the League. These are:-

 

* Help educate the public in the humane treat—
ment of animals.

* Press for extensions to present legislation
protecting animals.

* Discourage the indiscriminate breeding of
domestic pets, and so reduce the number of
unwanted and neglected animals.

* Press for the abolition of 'intensive farming'
of animals and poultry.

* Campaign to ban the export of live animals
for slaughter.

* Strive for the abolition of animal experimen—
tation, the cruel trapping of animals, circuses,
rodeos, blood sports and strict supervision of
zoos.

* Campaign for the total protection of our
native fauna.

2. You can join the World League for the
Protection of Animals.

The objects are as already stated, and the

Annual Membership fee in 1986 is $6 per annum.

3. We can practice Kindness to Animals. There
are pets in many homes. and here can be a good
opportunity for teaching children to be kind to
animals, as well as practicing the virtue oursel-
ves. Kindness begets kindness - sometimes in
animals, and sometimes in the child, who is
quick to learn.

 

 




 

 

 

You recall the famous story of Androcles and
the lion. Androcles was a Christian and an
animal lover, and one day in the wilds, he remo—
ved a thorn from a limping lion. Later, as a
Christian, he was arrested and thrown to the
lions in the vast arena, and in that dread mom-
ent, he came face to face with the lion he had
previously relieved, and the animal repayed him
for his kindness and spared his life. His kind-
ness bred kindness in the lion.

Once a flock of sheep crossing the road
through a city were dusty and tired after a long
journey. The drover took them to a drinking
place but there was one old sheep who was too
weary to get to the water, and she fell down
exhausted on the roadside. A little boy with a
dirty face and ragged clothes ran out from the
crowd of boys who were watching, and filled
his old felt hat with water, and carried it six
times to the thirsty, tired sheep, which enabled
it to rise and go on its way. This lad probably
had a pet at home and from there had learned
to be kind to animals - and this kindness he dis-
played was not only a relief to the sheep, but
was an object lesson to all who watched from
the kerb-side.

Let's go out of our way to be kind to animals,
and to encourage others to a similar kindness,
thus helping to fulfil this trust which God has
placed upon the human species, and which to
our sorrow has been a much neglected and abu—
sed trust.

4. Prayer to God will help us to fUIfil our
neglected trust. This is stated as a fact —
and not because it is the kind of thing that is
proper to say. Prayer is often construed as
talking to God. Rather should we think of it
as listening to God, for it is through His still
small voice that Light breaks in upon us.
Elijah heard this still small voice on Mount

6.

 

 

 

'7000

(Q:




 

Horeb, Paul heard it on the road to Damascus,
when he was converted to Christianity, and as
we pray in this listening attitude, so God gives
guidance to us concerning the problems that
perplex us. If we pray in this way about this
question of our neglected trust, we shall be led
to a new appreciation of the worth of animals
and birds in the sight of God, and we shall
value them accordingly and fashion our treat—
ment of them in the light of this evaluation.
We can pray a Prayer like this:-

"We ask You. O God. to hear our prayer
on behalf. of the dumb animals. who.
after their kind. bless. Praise and
magnify YOU forever. Grant that all
cruelty may cease out of our land;

and deepen our thankfulness to YOU for
the faithful companionship of those
whom we delight to call our friends.
according to the loving kindness of
our Lord Jesus Christ."

Prayer will undoubtedly help us to fulfil our
neglected trust in respect to the animal world
that is about us.

Let me remind you of these four things you
can do to help make amends for our neglected
trust:—

Adopt the aims and objects of the World
League for the Protection of Animals: Join

the League: Practice kindness to animals,
and PRAY.

Some of these things call only for the exer-
cise of determination within our personalities.
Others call for action on our part in the life
of our society. Let us therefore act in the
Name of God whose remembrance and care
includes not only sparrows, but all creatures,
great and small, of which He is the Creator.

 

7.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In closing I bring you this challenge from a
previous Archbishop of Canterbury in relation
to this neglected trust of ours. He said -

"I urge that all our people, and espec—

ially our Christian people, from childhood to
manhood, be impressed by the responsibility
of their trusteeship for the animal world as
an essential principle of their religion."

May this lovely trust of ours be no longer
neglected, but come into its own, as, we
follow the example and leading of our God
who cares.

 

Origin of the League

The League was founded by Miss Kate Deighton and
Rudolf Bergner in Germany in 1888, and formally
organized in Paris in 1988. The English Branch
of the League was established in 1908 by Miss A.
L. woodward, and she continued to direct its
activities until her death in 1921.

On October 4th, 1828, the League inaugurated world
Day for Animals, which is still universally held
the First Sunday in October.

 

 

 

 




Issued by
World League for Protection of Animals,
Australian Branch.
President: Mrs. Joan Papayanni,

Box 3719, G.P.O.,
SYDNEY, 2001.

 

5.1 m. Print — 85-5733

 




Hg%%d:WLPA:g v H’ In 6!

WORLD LEAGUE for PROTECTION of ANIMALS

- ALL CREATURES GREAT AND SMALL —

 

 

"Open Thy Mouth ﬁrm the Dumb. . ."
(Proverbs 31:8)

04.1111an (erorit

1985/66

PATRONS

Professor Peter Singer,
Mr. Vincent Serventy, Mr. Alex Griffiths

'DINGO’
An Original Australian

 

 

 

 

 

 

Registered No. 2835. Charitable Collections Act 1934.
Postal Address: Box 211, P. O. L Gladesville, N. S. W. , 2111.

 

 




 

COMMITTEE AS AT MARCH 1986

PRESIDENT:
VICE-PRESIDENTS: Mrs. 3.1. Papayantu
Mrs. J.H. Yomg
"’5‘ K‘"' ”We” HONORARY TREASURER:

Mrs. D.F. Ford
COM'IITTEE MEMBERS:

HONORARY SECRETARY:
Miss "0F. ”1.18m, DOAOMO

Miss E.G. Easton, Mrs. 3.1. Toghiii, Mrs. M. Bounan

Tl-E AMMAL GEllERAL MEETING will be held at The Assembly Hall, an Margaret St., Sydney,
4th Floor (No.2 Committee Room), at 10.30 a.m. on Illechesday, 21st May, 1986.

FUTURE MEETINGS will be held at the same address on 2nd llJednesday of each month (except

January) at 11 a.m.

LIFE MEMBERS OF THE LODGE — FINANCIAL AND HONORARY

Miss E. M. Ahlston, N. S. W. Mrs. E. J. Harrison, N. S. W.
Ms. Beth Alldridge, N. S. W. Miss Doreen Hassell, S. A.

Mrs. J. Allen, N. S. W. Miss Kathleen Hassell, S. A.
Animal Welfare Incorp. Q'land. Mrs. M. C. Hawken, Vic.

Ms. Maria Aria, N. S. W. Miss Helen N. Heney, N. S. W.
Miss M. E. Argo, Victoria Mr. John Hendricks, Canada

Animal Care Society, Victoria Miss Sharon Hendricks, Canada
Mrs. Roma Baldwin, N. S. W. Ms. Susan Hoogenbosch, Vic.

Mrs. Betty Baxter, N. S. W. Mr. Clive Hollands, Scotland
Miss M. F. Bechervaise, Vic. Mrs. Nan Ingleton, N. S. W.

Mrs. V. Bennett, N. S. W. Mrs. Alma Sonia Jackson, Vic.
Mrs. E. Berry, Q'land. Mrs. Elizabeth Janiszewski, S. A.
Mrs. C. Bienvenu, Vic. Mrs. A.L. Jenkins, Q'land.

Mrs. M. Bowman, N.S. W. Mrs. Vera Jones, N. S. W.

Mrs. K. Butler, N. S. W. Mrs. C. Keats, N. S. W.

Mr. E. F. Campbell, N. S. W. Mrs. P. Kirkman, N. S. W.

Mr. J. Child, N. S. W. Mrs. V. Knight, N. S. W.

Miss P. Churchman, N.~S. W. Mr. W. Krupp N. S. W

Mrs. Evelyn Cleary, N. s. w. Mr. D. Lindsay, N. s. w.

Miss Vivienne Cliff, Vic. Mr. H. R. S. Lindsay, N. S. W.

Mr. 8 Mrs. J. Coles, Q'land. Mrs. Y. McCausland, N. S. W.

Mrs. H. Connor, N. S. W. Miss Elizabeth McDougall, U. K.

Mr. H.L.. Cooper, N. S. W. Ms. Jean McDougall, S. A.

MISS Marion Craig, Vic. Mrs. Madeline McDougall, NSW

Mr. I.M. Dams, N. S. W. Mr. Robert McDougall, S.A.

Miss F. .Douglas, N. S. W. Miss Betty McKell N S W

Miss Edith Easton, N. S. W. Mrs. J. McGarry ’N S W .

11:44:88.}.Ed1vards, S.A. Ms. Dianne Margin, P. N. c.

M . . a coner, N. S. W. Miss Maureen Metcalfe, N. S. W.
rs. L. Farmer, Q'land. Dr. F. Milford U S A

Mrs. B. Farrow, Q'land. Mrs. Elsie Moo’re, .Vic..

Miss L. Fieldhouse N.S w ,
Mrs. M. Fleming,,N.S.W.. Mrs. B.A. Morgadinho, N. s.w,

Mr. M. M h N
m. 113. F. Ford, N. s. w. Mrs. J. Nell:§n?’,N. ss'ww'
M‘ - 02 Ford, N. S.W. Miss Lorna Nimmo N S W
183 J. Gosling, N. S. W. , i . .

Miss Pat Nobes, N. S. W.

Mr. 8 Mrs. A. Gregory, N. S. W. Miss J.A. Nolan, Q'land.

Mrs. Marjorie Grei N S W .
Mr. Alex Griffiths,g,Q'1anci, . Mrs. Mavis O'Duffy, N. S.W.

Ms. M. O N S
Mrs. Grace Hartle l1 38.: ~ - W.
Mr. Charles Hamilt’olg ﬁling. W. Mrs. Madeline Oriolo, N' S' W'

Mrs. B.H. Palmer, N. S. W.
Mrs. J.I. Papayanni, N.S. W.
Mr. A.J. Parkes, N. S. W.

Pittwater Flora 8 Fauna Scty., NSW.

Mr. 8 Mrs. A.J. Pollard, N. S. W.

Mrs. Olga Pollock, N. S. W.

Mr. J.S. C. Pollock, Q'land.

Mrs. P. Prince, N.S.W.

Pymble Ladies' College, N. S. W.

Mrs. E. Quinn, N.S. W.

Mrs. M. Roach, N.S.W.

Mrs. K. M. Rogers, N. S. W.

Miss Susan Ross, N. S. W.

Rev. H. E. Rowland, N. S. W.

Mrs. A.E. Seddon, Vic.

Mr. 8 Mrs. Ralph Selwyn, N. S. W-

Mr. Vincent Serventy, N. S. W.

Mrs. A.R. Shelton. Q'land.

Mrs. A.R. Sherman, N.S. W.

Mrs. Edith de Sigoyer, N. S. W.

Mrs. Joan Simmons, N. S. W-

Prof. Peter Singer, Vic.

Miss Ida Small, Vic.

Mrs. Tess van Sommers
D'Alpuget, N. S. W.

Mrs. Christine Stevens, U.S.x_‘\.

Mrs. M. E. Stewart Stevens (V1c.)

Mr. Peter Stewart, A. C.T..

TheOSOphical Order of SEE/See,

Mrs. .1. To hill, N.S. W.
Mrs. JChristin: Townend, N. S. W.
Mrs. G. Vachugoff, N. S. W.
MrS. F.R. Wakelin, N.S.W.

Ms. K. Wallwork, N. S. W. W
Mr. SMrs. C.B. Walters, N. S. -
Miss Marjorie Wilson, N. S. W.
Miss Judith Yardley, N. S. W-

Mrs. Lillian Young, W.A.

Mrs. Joy Young, N. S.W

 

C_HURCH SERVICE

 

Msmgers are in'Vited to attend the lunch time Service
t' AndFew 3 Cathedral on behalf of all animals.

T' -
2. me. 1.15 p.m. — 1.45 p.m. Date: Wednesday, May 14th, 1986'

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

PRESIDENT'S REPORT

 

Throughout the last year The World League has continued the fight to promote the wel-
fare and rights of animals. The League has continued to distribute animal care leaf-
lets to both individuals and to schools and libraries. Committee member Jess Toghill
has answered all letters from children with great care and feeling and it is hearten—
ing to see the concern expressed in the letters of many children.

Our major effort for the year has again been concentrated on "Be Kind to Animals Week",
the first week in October, which is also World Week for Animals. We reprinted manv
leaflets for this week and leaflets and posters were sent out to the central branch of
every municipal library in the metropolitan area for display and distribution in both
central libraries and branches.

An Animal Care poster for infants and primary school children was designed for us by
Life Member Ann Beatty (Connor) a graphic artist. It is a black and white poster (in
three parts) and is proving very useful in explaining the basic concept of animal care
to young children. (Copies of these posters may be obtained.(for cost of postage only)
by writing to me C/— W.L.P.A., Box 211, Cladesville, 2111 or 12 Dick Street, Henlev.
N.S.W. 2111. We would be delighted to send them to you on request)

An advertisement was also placed in 'Education' the journal of the N.S.W. Teachers
offering information and to arrange speakers for 'Kindness to Animals Week'. Manv
requests for printed information were received and responded to, and with the assis—
tance of The N.S.W. Animal Welfare League speakers were sent to several Sydney schools.

Katherine Rogers, Vice President and herself a teacher and writer, prepared lesson
notes and reading lists for infants, primary and secondary students on Animal Care and
Welfare. She is also at present preparing a Submission for the Board of Senior School
Studies to request that consideration be given to including Animal welfare and Animal
Rights on the general studies syllabus for secondary schools.

During the year, two Fund Raising Stalls were held at the Double Bay Shopping Centre,
on April 13th and August 31st. The April stall made a profit of $259.20 and the August
one $178.00

Because funds were still low as result of the dispersal of almost all monies in 1983
when The League was planning to close, and because money was urgently required to meet
Drinting costs, a letter of appeal was sent to Life Members in September/October 1985.
The Committee was most heartened and grateful to receive donations of $1,237 (plus
$200 each from The Australian Society for Humane Research and The Kangaroo Protection
Co—operative Ltd.).

During 'Kindness to Animals Week', an Essay Competition was held at Lindfield.Primary
School with the co—operation of the Headmaster, Mr. George Bell. The response from
the children was very encouraging and some excerpts from the winning essays will be
included separately in this Report.

On two occasions during the year visiting speakers attended committee meetings. At
the October meeting the committee was addressed by Mr. E. Kertesz on Horses — their
Needs and Care'. Mr. Kertesz has much knowledge and expertise in this field and it is
envisaged that later this year a leaflet on the 'Care of Horses' will be produced.

At the February meeting David Horton of Elizabeth Bay (formerly a member of Animal
Liberation) spoke on the subject of training people to speak on Animal Welfare Issues
to groups of school children. He sought the help of The League in sponsoring this.
The matter is still under discussion. Katherine Rogers attended his Monday evening
groups at the Kings Cross Community Centre, where lectures were given and opportuni—
ties to practice speaking before a group were provided. The World League applauds
him for the initiative he has taken in this field.

3.

 




Early in 1986 a Sermon by one of our Life Members, the Rev. H.E. Rowland, entitled
tour Neglected Trust' was revised by Mr. Rowland and reprinted. We are enclosing

a copy for all members; and ask you when you have read the Sermon if you would pass
it on to a local minister. The League is most appreciative of Mr. Rowland's Efforts,
and we are forever hopeful that more churches will be prepared to take an actiVe
stand on the issue of animal suffering and cruelty to animals.

Members may obtain an extra copy of the Rev. Rowland's Sermon by writing to me i-
C/- World League, Box 211, Gladesville, 2111, and enclosing $1 which will cover

the cost of printing and postage.

At the Annual Meeting of A.N.Z.F.A.S. (Australia and New Zealand Federation of Animal
Societies) held in Melbourne in July, 1985, the world League was represented by
Vice~President Katherine Rogers and Hon. Treasurer Dode Ford. In the group discussion
Katherine affiliated with the Companion Animal Group and Dode with the wild Life Group,
Both felt the Conference had been a productive one. The League looks forward to the
1986 Annual Meeting which is to be held in Sydney.

Mr. Paul Barsdall, Secretary, Select Committee on Animal welfare, has advised that
the Committee is presently finalising its consideration of kangaroos. The Committee
will then be considering animal husbandry and animal experimentation. General wild-
life will either be considered in tandem with these other two or after one is
finished. It is our understanding that the League's Steel Jawed Submission will be
considered in the general wildlife section.

Finally, I would like to thank most warmly all members for their interest and help
on behalf of the League and for the sake of the animals for whom all our efforts are
directed. Please 'keep up the fight for them' in 1986.

- Joan Papayanni.

 

 

 

           
     
 
 

 

THAT'S DEFINITELA/ .. ,. ,.
’THE LAW TIME A .
(10 TO ONE. OF $4085 0 po 0
GREENE? EALL153 y a as: . § 9 e‘
‘ x O ,5 \ 0: \ 1/2 C
'0 K3130 .
\ DO Vovo O
3-“ BLOODY the _-l_:-§“x\\; w O
9" BEAUTIFULI%‘%V£-i “y 2,. 00 o o
A 5* @‘g ‘6‘ Q09 “5 Wﬁgsiiﬁ \ /
\ “$355 $.‘§§%g»§§r”' ,4? ' B€»$£ie' _ ’ .
5? *3 E§é ﬂ“ : “3%?mssq T Tr: ‘ . a: 00
m"' ‘Mghw fix' v 4‘
.0. \\“ " 000.0- ' 1A.? .0 C;
o .. .. \ o a .
0 .q; o o “ ‘ . - 0 . o (X
1 0% O 04 ' C1
MbKb c1<:(' ‘
THE BULLETIN. NOVEMBER 12. 1985 Courtesy Of Mark Lynch.

 

A4

COMMITTEE 'MEETINGS continue to be held on the SECOND WEDNESDAY of each month

at ”0-2 Committee Room. 4th Floor, Assembly Building, 44 Margaret Street. Time 11 Mb
Members are cordially invited to attend. Anyone with a little spare time who may
later be interested in joining the Committee would be very welcome.

‘4.

 

 

 

 




 

 

HONORARY SECRET ARY'S REPORT

1985-86 has seen once again "The League" emerge as a caring animal welfare group.
Members have spoken out on many contentious issues.

The Committee has been heartened by the continued financial support it has recei-
ved from its loyal members.

During the year a bequest of $1,000 was received from the Estate of the late
Grace Cossington—Smith to be applied to the Kangaroo Protection Committee (see 'dona-
tions' Treasurer's Report).

Grace Cossington—Smith, better known as a famous artist, was an Australian who
dearly loved all animals. She was, as the Minister said of her at the Memorial Service,
a sweet Christian lady.

In the latter years of her long life was confined to a convalescent home on the
North Shore. when I visited her there she would always greet me with "How are my belo—
ved kangaroos?", so it came as no great surprise she thought of the kangaroos in her
will. ,

Bequests to voluntary organisations not only give Committee Members a wonderful
lift, they enable the group to accomplish some of their aims in animal welfare work.

I am sure the m.L.P.A. will continue to flourish. Serving as your Honorary Sec—
retary has been both a privilege and a pleasure.

- Marjorie Wilson.

SUBMISSION TO GENERAL STUDIES SYLLABUS COMMITTEE.

 

A Submission to the General Studies Syllabus Committee is being prepared suggesting
that the animal rights movement be included in the list of topics suggested for study.

General Studies is an inter-disciplinary course covering a wide range of topics which
are mostly of current interest. Issues covered include the changing roles of sexes,
the impact of science and technology on society, and the role of the mass media in our
community. ’

The World League considers that the animal rights movement has made a considerable
impact on habits of thought and ways of life of a large section of our community.

This fact was acknowledged by Justice Kirby in his speech to the Australian Veterin—
ary Association in Brisbane in 1985.

The animal rights movement is a topic of current interestand public debate, as demon-
strated by the numerous items in the mass media.

For these reasons the world League considers it a suitable topic for discussion in the

General Studies syllabus. - Katherine Rogers

* * * * *. * *

Stalls
we plan to hold one, possibly two, stalls throughout the year. As usual we found our
best sellers were home-made cakes, biscuits, jam and sweets. Soft toys were also in
demand and good second hand books.

If you can help with any of these please ring 449—8697 (after 7 p.m.) or 817-3455.
we would be extremely grateful for any offers of help with these items.

 




 

THE DINGO -- OUTLAW of AUSTRALIAN WILDLIFE

DINGOES at BARGOi

. ative Do Training Society of N. S. W. Ltd. , is approaching its 10th year Since
'iltilinélelipttlibld?n The Dingoges are so friendly and well cared for and 1t 18 a. joy 1:0. spend time With
them -- but alas, they are still classified as 'noxious'. This 18 a great dlsappolntment to the
Executive Director, Mrs. Berenice Walters, and indeed .everyone who wants a. fair go for our
Dingo. Society members believe with the Bicentenary 1n the offering, it is time to eliminate
such medieval terms, 'vermin' or 'noxious' which are applied to Dingoes. As an ORIGINAL
Australian, the native dog has more than an equal right for respect, 1ts survrval and welfare
protected.

The Dingo now sponsored by W. L. P. A. is 'Jedda' (daughter of Peter Pan and Dawn) and she and
her brother 'Jarrah' are wonderful native dog ’ambassadors'. The photo of then‘ half brother
'Kimba' (on front page of this Report) was taken at Bargo and is featured on the new T shirts.
'Kimba' and his lovely sister 'Minki' are sponsored by two of our Life Members.

The Society holds Open Days on the first Sunday of each second month. The dates of the next
3 Open Days: May 4, July 6, and September 7. Visits at other times are welcome, but please
ring Headquarters (046) 841-156 in advance.

,DINGOES in the WILD:

Last year, with great h0pes we published the Australian Conservation Foundation Dingo policy,
but unfortunately, recent comments with councillors of the A. C. F. came up with the answer
that no progress has been made toward implementing the Dingo policy. We wrote to the Direc-
tor, Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service, and along with other questions, asked what
action his Department will be taking to implement the A. C. F. Dingo policy — but Professor
Ovington's letter of acknowledgment omitted answering that vital question.

 

The Dingo was present in Australia before 1788 and it is defined as a native Australian species
by the Wildlife Protection (Regulation of Exports and Imports) Act, 1982; under the Act, the
Minister can draw up and approve a management programme for Dingoes across Australia. If
the Dingo management proves unsatisfactory, the Minister can then take action to prohibit any
export of Dingoes or dingo products. There is a trade in dingo skins but there is no approved
management programme. An approved management programme could require State authorities
to remove Dingoes from noxious lists.

The Australian Bureau of Statistics advised in February, 1985 that native dog skins are not sep—
arately identified in the Australian Export Commodity Classification, but are included under
'other skins'. Therefore, in what seems to be general inertia and apathy in the corridors of
power regarding Dingoes, no—one knows or cares how many native dog skins are exported. No-
one bothers about an approved management programme as accorded to other Australian fauna.

1080 POISOH. Dingo and feral dog baiting with 1080 is increasing in magnitude, particularly
1n Queensland and Western Australia with the resultant devastating effect on animal and bird
life. Poison 1080 has a continuing lethal action, so as well as killing target animals, hundreds
of thousands of non-target animals and birds (some endangered species) will die after eating the
ba1ts or feeding on the carcasses of unfortunate creatures which have succumbed to the poison-

Figures of baits dropped in Queensland are not yet available, but 'Courier Mail' October 9, 1985
reported that an order had been placed with a Western Australian firm for 1 million 1080 baits.
When in Queensland recently, Richard Jones, Executive Director of Fund for Animals was told by
kangaroo shooters that the 1080 drop there had killed all the kookaburras and most of the snakes
and goannas all the way from Charleville to the border. . .

 

In Western Australia over 3 million 1080 baits were dropped in 1985:

Pastoral areas (target, wild dogs) manufactured baits 2, 690, 000
fresh meat baits 339: 415

Agricultural areas (target, rabbits and 1 shot mixes 14: 248
some experimental feral pig control) vials 660

Agriculture Protection Board f W - , , , . t that
conducted in 1985', o estem Austraha. “The 1986 programme Wlll be Slmﬂar 0

 

:nnrll‘lewl South Wales in recent years, approximately 91, 000 baits of 1080 have been dePOSited
ua Y. Quote from 'Impact of Wild Mammals and Birds on Agriculture in New South Wales

1981':- ' ' - .
is suspect. I???” is very little hard data on the damage done by wild dogs and even 1ts accuracy

There 18 an urgent need for research data on the agricultural impact of Dingoes; at present Wild

Elog control is. too reliant upon farmer surveys and unsupported Opinions. There is an urgent need
or a nationW1de survey of Dingo numbers.

5.

 

 




 

 

Traps. The League's view regarding the cruel steel jawed trap is well known. The Victorian
Government is to be commended for providing funds to research an acceptable alternative. The
Minister for Conservation, Forests and Lands, Mrs. Joan Kirner, enabled me to visit the Keith
Tumbull Research Institute, F rankston, and Spend an informative morning with the Technical
Adviser, Mr. Peter Stevens, who deve10ped the Treadle Snare Trap. The snare is an alternative
leg-hold device which does not cause the same degree of injury as the steel jawed trap, and it is
less likely to catch lighter animals and birds.

R. S. P. C.A. (Vic. ) News, July '. . . with daily clearing the snare would be quite an acceptable
method for catching wild dogs, other predators and vermin; the continued use of the steel jawed
trap is not. '

On field trials over a 5 months' period, the treadle snare has performed on a par with steel jawed
trap, and the snare caused no bone damage to any species except (unfortunately) the wallaby.

Smaller animals such as foxes, cats and possums had varying degrees of bruising beneath the skin;
those caught for longer periods had swelling occurring beneath the point of grip of the snare. The
larger animals, dogs and wombats, had varying degrees of bruising beneath skin and at worst,
swollen foot. One of the aims of the snare is to release non-target species.

Letter from the Minister, Mrs. Kirner, December, 1985 '. . . a tender has recently been let for the
construction of 1000 treadle snare traps . . . . training of dogmen will be taking place . . . . treadle
snare traps are being phased in and it is planned by the end of 1986 the steel jawed trap will no
longer be used by Departmental personnel. '

Good news indeed, and although the treadle snare trap is not a humane replacement for the steel
jawed trap it is a step towards the banning of the cruel steel jaws, Australia wide.

EIGCLFiC Fencing. (The humane control of Dingoes and feral dogs)

In W. A. small scale trials have been conducted on electric fencing and a larger trial is now in
progress on the Nullabor. A solar collector with various energiser units is being tested.

In N. S.AW. National Parks and Wildlife Service has carried out electric fencing work in the South-
ern Tablelands. The Minister for Agriculture, Mr. Hallam, says this has proved quite successful
and furtherwork is proposed. A number of private landholders throughout the State have also con-
strgctgdelectric‘fences to protect their stock from wild dog predation.

From South Australia comes the news that 200 kilometres of the 8, 600 km. dingo fence has been
electrified so far, the energy supplied by two solar panels every 30 km and graziers experimenting
with it have found the maintenance cost greatly reduced.
'SOLAR OUTBACK' was an interesting 'Countrywide' programme, June, 1985, in which Mr.
Michael Sheehan was interviewed. Running across his property he has 115 km of dog fence, of
which 43 km has been renewed with solar electric fence, and he plans to renew the lot. He has
had lambing ewes up against the electric fence when the dogs were in large numbers outside and
there has not been one instance of the sheep being molested. In his letter he lsays that in his
experience the electric dog fence is far superior to conventional fencing in many ways.
(1) cost - 1/5 to 1/4 of cost of netting fence
(2) maintenance - 10% of maintaining a netting fence
(3) effectiveness in controlling dogs 100% if the fence has been patrolled
and supervised correctly.
'Solar Outback' is good news indeed ! .
As a worthy Bicentenary project, it would be the answer to prayer if the Federal Minister for En—
vironment and State Ministers for Agriculture had an attitude change regarding the management
of our most persecuted native animal.

'Man and Nature live in delicate Balance' - Dode Ford.

 

WARRIGAL, O WARRIGAL
(Canis Familiaris Dingo or Native Dog?)
”'— Nan Ingleton:
Never, this island's own — yet, of the land,
From alien imprint on Creation's shore;
Never, this island's own? Nor, then, was man . . .
Dawn-drenched and drifting South, he bore
Another wilderness within the blood:
On lonely sea or sleeping sands, his one
'Familiar' at the fall of night . . . hearth—dog
And hunter, Warrigal . . . wearing the sun
By tribal trail and legend, to his last
Wild battlement where storms of change pulsate;
Singing the stars his old lament, the song
Now rides the white man's hurricane of hate. . . .
From torture -trap and (toxic—lure, the hills
Echo his anguish to a savage sky;
Hungry, the captive heart and thirst-condemned,
Warrigal, O Warrigal . . . by these, you die! 7.

{A '7

 




WORLD LEAGUE FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS (AUSTRALIAN BRANCH)

BALANCE SHEET AS AT 3lst MARCH 1986
ACCUMULATED FUNDS

 

Balance at Blst March 1985 960. 73
Adi Bequest - Estate late G. Cossington Smith 1, 000. 00
1, 960. 73

_I_._e_ss_ Deficit for the year (283. 88)
$1, 676. 85

Represented by:
CURRENT ASSETS

 

 

Cash at Bank 730. 01

Cash on Hand 51. 84

Interest Bearing Deposits 1, 000. 00 1, 781. 85
LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES

Sundry Creditors 105. ()0

$1, 676. 85

 

AUDITORS' REPORT

We report that we have examined the books of account of the World League for the Protection
of Animals (Australian Branch) and have obtained all the information and explanations we have
required.

In our opinion the above Balance Sheet and accompanying Income and Expenditure Account are
pr0perly drawn up so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Society as at

Blst March 1986. CHARLES M. HARVEY a co.

(Sgd.) F. E. MOODY - Partner
_ CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
SYDNEY, 10th April, 1986' Registered under the Public Accountants
. Registration Act, 1945, as amended.

 

 

INCOME 8 EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3lst MARCH 1986.

 

 

Income
Interest Received 117. 70
Subscriptions 8 Donations 3, 165. 20
Proceeds - Street Stalls and Sales 453. 20
3, 737. 10
Less Expenditure
Annual Meeting Costs - Printing Reports,
Postage, etc. 780. 55
Accountancy 180. 00
Bank Charges 5. 95
Donations (Note 1) 1, 135. 00
Hire of Meeting Room 100. 00
Printing - General 271. 60
- Leaflets etc. 1, 000.46
Postages 8 Sundry Expenses 377. 42
Subscriptions 170. 00 42 020. 98
Deficit for the year ($233- 88)

Notes to and forming part of the Accounts for the year ended 31st March 1986.
Note 1 - Donations

 

Kangaroo Protection Co-operative Ltd. 1, 000- 00
Australians for Animals - 25- 00
John Fairfax 8 Son "Koala Fund" 25' 00
Australian 8 New Zealand Federation of Animal Societies 25- 00
Tasmanian Canine Defence League 20‘ 00
Australian Conservation Foundation 20' 00
"Canopy" Native Forest Committee _._39.:_0—9

$1,135.00

Note 2 a”.

There is a contingent asset in a further distribution from the Estate of the
late Theo B. Atkinson on realisation of estate assets.

 

e211 .4




e83

TREASU RE R'S REPORT

Last year our accumulated funds were $980.73 and this year they have risen to $1878.85.
The increase is mainly due to the fund raising efforts, including street stalls, init-
iated by our President, Mrs. Joan Papayanni, and Vice President, Mrs. Kath Rogers.

There are many Life Members from whom we had not heard for many years, but our Presi—
dent's appeal to Life Members to contribute money for 'Be Kind to Animals Week'
expenses, brought forth the pleasing response of $1237.00. We are also indebted to
our Life Member and 'printer' Mrs. Merle Roach. Mrs. Roach has been very generous to
the League regarding printing costs (sometimes no charge). Mr. & Mrs. Roach have
quietly commented over the years that we work for a good cause and they like to help.

The Australian Association for Humane Research and Kangaroo Protection Co-operative
Ltd., each donated $200 to 'Be Kind to Animals' Appeal and this was appreciated.

One of the rewarding aspects of keeping the books of account has been to receive
encouraging letters and note the regular donations of several members. However it is
regretted that a few 1985 subscriptions have not been received. If a red dot appears
on your Annual Report, we hope you will forward your 1985 subscription along with the
1986, Our financial year commences 1st April, so 1988 subscription is now due —- it
remains at $8.00 and $2.00 concession and juniors. Please forward subscriptions to
P.0. Box 211, GLADESVILLE, N.S.w. 2111.

A letter (19 June, 1985) was received from solicitor to the estate of the former
member of the League, the late Miss Grace Cossington Smith. A cheque of $1000 was
enclosed in payment of a legacy '...to be applied for the purpose of their Kangaroo
Protection Committee...’ As shown in the financial statement, donation of $1000.00
was made to the Kangaroo Protection Co-operative Ltd. (Some members may not know that
the Kangaroo Protection Committee was formed as a division of the U.L.P.A. in 1989, it
remained a division until January, 1980, when, as the Kangaroo Protection Co—operative
Ltd., it was registered as a Community Advancement Society and took over all the aims
of the Kangaroo Protection Committee)

The 8th and probably final distribution from the estate of the late T. B. Atkinson has
not yet been received. We have been informed that it will be a smaller distribution
but will be most welcome to pay for pamphlets and posters. As recorded in the two
previous Annual Reports, the League received $9,500.00 from the combined 4th and 5th
distributions, and the Kangaroo Protection Co—operative Ltd. received $8,300.00 from
that sum. Several members have commented 0n the seemingly disproportionate distribu-
tion of our funds and they have been informed that this was a decision made by the
Management Committee in October, 1983.

Our donations to other organizations have been less than in former years, but with
limited money, we can only try to help special appeals as best we can. We want to
build up our own resources, mainly for the purpose mentioned in our President's report.
May I take the opportunity of saying here, that our League is indeed fortunate to have
such a capable and caring leader as Mrs. Joan Papayanni. Joan's mother, Mrs. Irene
Edwards of Adelaide, has been a Life Member of the League for many years. All these
Years she has campaigned for animal welfare. particularly on talk-back radio and
letters to the press. A hearty 'thank you' Mrs. Edwards — and keep up the good work.

finally, I would like to thank those who have assisted me during my three year term
1n office, and in particular, special gratitude is extended to a former Hon.Treasurer
0f the League, Mrs. Pearl Prince.

With good wishes to all members and friends of the world League for Protection of
Animals. 0 F Ford

 




 

WILDLIFE CORNER

' ' ' liant attempts are being made by
Much has been ha n1ng on the Conservatlon front. Firstly, va .
concerned Australia: to save the trees and rainforests. You might ask "what has savmg our forests
to do with the W. L. P. A. ?" Everything. Many animals live in our forests. We .must therefore pre—
serve their habitat. What will future generations think of us if we allow these animals to become
extinct.

All States have animal and floral emblems. It seems incred-
ible that most of these animals are at risk.

The numbat is Western Australia's mammal emblem. It is a
small unique marsupial, which is seriously threatened with
extinction. Fortunately the *W. A Wildlife Research Centre
has recognised its plight and is endeavouring to safeguard its
future. We trust they can.

New South Wales' emblem, the platypus, can still be found
in the State's National Parks, but they have vanished from
most of our coastal streams where they were once abundant,
due mainly to insecticides and pesticides washing into these
streams. We must therefore guard our National Parks from
commercial vandals.

Queensland's emblem, the koala, needs no introduction.

It is heartening to see so many conservation groups taking
up the cause. The Sun—Herald is also playing a part in giv—
ing publicity to the koala. In 1975 when I tried to alert the
governments and the general public to the koala's plight
only a handful of people seemed interested. Now some 11
years later concern is being expressed and an attempt is
being made to rectify the position. But, are we too late?

And what of our National Emblem - the kangaroo. The kill-
quota for 1986 is over 2 million animals. The real issue is
they are being killed without justification. They are not .
being killed because they are threatening a farmer's llveli-
‘ hood. They are being killed for an industry. ’ It is the
World's largest wildlife slaughter. That wonderful Australian, the late Ellis Troughton in his "Creed
for Nature Lovers" wrote: "I believe 7 ., 7 .
That, because the Australian continent fostered all the fascinating furred animals, birds and
flowers that awaited the coming of civilization, our land should provide their everlasting sanctuary.
That, since the forests and trees supply food and shelter for the birds, and unique marsupials
like the Koala, such forests should not be destroyed without adequate reason and due replacement.
That, any wholesale sacrificing of native animals for monetary gain, in a country so rich in
resources of grain, stock and minerals, is a confession of incompetence and wasteful greed, unworthy
of the Australian Commonwealth. "
I wonder what he' would say if.» he came back to—day and saw the 1986 kill-quota?

 

Congratulations to the N. S. W. Government for enacting legislation to ‘phase out captive cetacea

(whales and dolphins).

In the wild dolphins travel up to 50 miles a day, dive thousands of feet into the ocean and display an

exuberance and joy in life, which is their main attraction to us. What right have we to keep them

in tiny concrete pools for our amusement? At last people are realising that animals have rights too.
- Mariorie Wilson (02) 81-2923

W. I. R. E. S. (N SW Wildlife Information 8 Rescue Service)

After many months of investigations and discussion WIRES
was launched on 16th March. It is, as the name implies,
a native animal and bird rescue service to Operate within
the Sydney Metropolitan area.

WIRES has two main functions:

* to establish a network of trained volunteers, linked to
National Parks 8 Wildlife Service authorised care centres
(wildlife permit holders) and veterinary surgeries, to
come to the aid of a native animal in distress or requir-
ing removal to better habitat;

* to provide information on wildlife care, for example,
the regeneration of urban bushland, the avoidance of

chemicals harmful to native animals and the planting of
trees for wildlife.

These tasks are co—ordinated by employed and volunteer
staff. ,

If you would like further information on W. I. R. E. S.
'phone 977-5380 or write to W. I. R. E. S. , 14 Sydney Road, -
M l N. . . . ’ - '
10 an y, S W ’ 2095 "Mitzie" Female wallaroo

 

 




 

 

To bee or not to bee ?

.Small wonder the script writers of ever—running TV series "Prisoner" christened a top-

dog character Bea. Queen Bee reigning in honeycomb cells, keeping order.
Anyway. if it wasn't intentional, then someone's subconscious must have had a hand in
it, so much we hold The Bee in awe, Her powers of industry are inspirational and her
sting legendary. She has buzzed her way into our literature, music. what better des-
cription for a group of ladies engrossed in needlework for a noble cause than a "sew-
ing bee"? What better compliment than "busy as a bee" for a person charged with super-
activity? One could go on with golden, honeyed voice and hum and drone in this hymn

to the bee, but the composer Rimsky—Korsakov has outdone such efforts. He framed his
images in "The Flight of the Bumble Bee", played by countless musicians.

0ur bee doesn't work flexitime — up at sunrise and down to sunset. She visits thous-
ands of flowers in a day, and with her workers produces up to 23,000 tonnes of honey

a year in Australia. Not only does she produce honey, beeswax (for the beautification
of our skins and our furniture), she means abundant fruit in orchards and vegetable
gardens through pollination.

But there is also mystique ... Some say that if a beekeeper dies, the new master must
don a black mourning veil, knock on the beehive and speak to the bees. He must tell
them that their old master is dead and introduce himself. If a bee flies uncomfortably
close to you, they say you may calmly point your finger in another direction and tell
it to fly there — I have done this myself a few times (well, you've gotta try!) It is
true that fear is one of the greatest obstacles in attempting to communicate with this
wonderful creature. Fear equals reaction equals sting. You get stung, the bee loses
its sting, dies and leaves her symphony of work unfinished. It's slightly different
with the Queen Bee — if you have the honour to be stung by her, you are still stung,
but she lives.

Egt what to do if you are

stung?

The bee only stings if it feels
threatened, or if it feels it
must protect the hive. If stung,
the sting is visible and can be
removed by fingernail. Pain can
then be relieved by applying hot
towels, and a cooling cream.

And you should live.

A little stingjggn'tiELmﬁ
off from becoming a beekeepero

The N.S.w. Department of Agricul-
ture have available material for
beginners, and have produced a
9U1de called 'Beginning in Bees".
according to them there is a grow-
lng number of beekeepers every
year, and perhaps the language
between humans and bees is grow—
mg to greater riches. Agfact A8, 1. 1, Second edition 1982

mea "C rtes of Principal - Publications
margaIEt B n. N. 211W. yI’Dept. of Agriculture"

 

11.

 

 




 

FUR ADVERTISEMENT IN CHRISTIAN PUBLICATION

In the "IMPACT' (May, 1985) the official Journal of wesley Central Mission,
Sydney, we were disappointed to see a full page advertisement for a Sydney furrier.

me deplore the fact that a Christian publication which reaches 50,000 people
would accept an advertisement knowing that tens of millions of animals are trapped,
clubbed, poisoned or shot each year, and animals ranch-bred are imprisoned in small
wire mesh cages resulting in psychotic conditions for the selfish adornment and
status symbol of fur coats.

As we do not think the Church should promote vanity based on cruelty, we have
written two letters to the Rev. Cordon Noyes, but have received no acknowledgment.
Protests from other organizations including Australian and New Zealand Federation of
Animals Societies, Animal Liberation and Fund for Animals also remain unacknowledged.

In general, the voice of religion is quiet where compassion for animals is
concerned, so early last year we were surprised and delighted to receive a copy of a
Sermon preached in 1954 by an Hon. Life Member of the League, Rev. H.E. Rowland.

'How can a woman wear a trapped fur knowing every hair on that skin has vibrated
with prolonged torture' he quotes in his Sermon '0UR NEGLECTED TRUST'. we have had
the Sermon reprinted and are pleased to enclose a copy with this Report.

In times gone by no doubt many of us liked to wear furs, but that was before
our eyes were opened to the horrors perpetuated. whoever still wears furs continues —
perhaps unawares - this heinous traffic in terrified, tortured creatures of the wild.

May_we appeal to members and friends to write to Rev. Keith Brooks, General See—
retary, Uniting Church in Australia, N.S.w. Synod, 139 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
and/or Rev. Cordon Noyes, Superintendent, wesley Central Mission and Executive Editor,
'IMPACT' wesley Centre, 210 Pitt Street, Sydney, and express your dissatisfaction
about the fur advertisement in the Christian Church journal. Please protest against

future advertisements promoting vanity based on animal abuse and cruelty — and request
an acknowledgement.

A Paradox:

 

'Tis strange how women kneel in church and pray to God above,
Confess small sins, and chant a praise, and sing that He is love;
While coats of softly furred things upon their shoulders lie —
Of timid things, of tortured things that 'take so long to die'.

The church is vaulted, robed the choir, the bells chime sweet and clear,
The tall green spires in the forest aisles ring to wild cries of fear:
For creatures small that God hath made to pleasure in the snow

Are writhing on the frozen ground in helpless, hapless woe.

'Tis strange to hear the organ peal - 'Have mercy on us, Lord,‘
The benediction - peace to all - they bow with one accord,
While from stained windows fall the lights on furs so softly warn»
Of timid things, of little things, that died in cold and storm.
Elizabeth Hamilton—Harrison
(Courtesy Canadian Association for Humane Trapping

* * * * * it

John Wesley's impassioned Sermon protesting the mistreatment of animals raised the

PUblic conscience in the 18th Century. There is an urgent need for a revival of

impassioned Sermons on behalf of animals to-day. Dode F d
_ or .

 

STOP PRESS: It is distressing to read in Impact (the official journal of
Wesley Central Mission. Sydney) May 1986, a full-page advertisement for

the same Sydney furrier. Our letters of protest have been ignored ! l !
12.

 

 

 




 

 

 

BEAUTY WITHOUT CRUELTY

The World League supports the promotion of Beauty lilithout Cruelty Cosmetics

These pro-

ducts are not tested on animals and as far as possible are made with natural ingredients

A social gathering was held at the home of Marjorie lililson in August last year and

Beauty without Cruelty products were offered for sale.

Over $100 worth of cosmetics

were sold, and a very pleasant afternoon was enjoyed by all.

Beauty Without Cruelty Cosmetics are available in th
. e healt '
Bros. stores, and in some other health food shops. h fOOd section 0f most Grace

we suggest you might consider buying these in preference to cosmetics which are tested

on animals.

 

 

Courtesy

— Katherine Rogers.

 

The Sydney Morning Herald, Mon. April 14, 1986.

Animal Liberation

STAY IN TOUCH

The British Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has launched a

_ national campaign to halt what it says is a cruel trade in frogs' legs.

In letters

sent to its members, the RSPCA said it was opposed to the way in which the frogs'

legs were collected.

This often involved slicing off part of the le '
. . gs of live fro s
and then discarding the upper part of their bodies "to crawl away and die". 9

The

Siplligdsaid that hundreds of millions of frogs were killed this way every year, mostly
. 1a and Bangladesh, so that the legs could then be exported to Europe and the

United States.

The frogs' legs campaign follows a call recently by the British Fauna

and Flora Preservation Society for government measures to cut down the high death

toll of toads on British roads.

In recent weeks, the society has been putting up

r ' -
“12:: Signs and selling car bumper stickers which read "Help a Toad Across the Road".
we want to know is where do Sydney restaurants get their frogs' legs?

-_¥

‘4"! Alumni rm, April 11 1986 -

 

Thinking of buying a fur coat? ..

wiflm‘ ~ April inevitably bringS
i it_the annual rash of fur
pggénonons. So some of your
to s elrs may be feeling tempted
itemp urge on a charming little
wh m mink. arctic fox. or
:tetver. But first they may
origin? know Just. how the
-c a owners of the furs

almetolose them. .
ow git-lags the fur’s crisinal
jawedt as caught in a steel-
we” hrap. In. this case it could
hun ave died from thirst.
emiter. cold or gangrene
re its for was stripped

h it {nay have
S on y before
P u"Elmer n '

. . iade . ~
en it would his rounds.
ay or
‘1 shatte

tli

rso lying helpless with
ed leg before being

have spent only,

bludgeoned to death.

Or perhaps the fur’s original
owner spent its entire life in a
small wire cage on a for farm.
The few months of its short life
in this close confinement would
be given over to compulsive
pacing. self-mutilation or other
forms of neurotic behaviour.

Then it would be killed by
any of a number of methods.
There are just two consider-
ations: cost and potential dam-
age to the fur. Poisoning. gass-
ing and electrocution are com—
mon. But methods of electo~
cution are often primitive and
sometimes a shocked. paralysed
but fully conscious animal may
be skinned alive.

Only the very lucky ones
meet death quickly with a bul-
let through the brain. And

there are countless others who
limp away. wounded. to die
slowly and in pain.

At times. of course. demand
exceeds supply. Then a whole
species may be obliterated
from the face of the earth to
supply the fashion conscious
with the latest thing in furs.
This distinction was accorded
the Falkland Island fox and
the North American sea mink.

So perhaps your readers
could think twice before buying
that ohoso-glamorous fur.

After all. the first owner was

killed in it.

K. M. ROGERS
VicecPresident

World League for
Protection of Animals
Sydney

13.

 




 

 

 

!

'BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK"

Excerpts from some winninLEssays from the Children
of Lindfield Primary School.

'THE POSSUM. One summers day when we were all working in the garden we heard a high
pitched squeal. There we saw a baby possum that had damaged its paw badly. My Dad
rushed to get a bandage to support the wound while I held the stunned animal. Me
finaﬂy got the wound bandaged up then we wrapped the possum up in a rug and put it in
y a box.’ - By Kristen Stewart

'THE CARE OF HORSES. The horse need quite a lot of care. If you own a horse you
should have a stable or shelter for it. It should be exercised daily in a wide open
paddock. Its grooming is one of the most important things that you should do for your
pony. Each day you should check to make sure that your pony's hooves don't have sharp
rocks or pebbles in them. You should also give your pony a brush at least every second
day. Also give its mane a good comb because their mane and tail often get very knotty.
For the mane you use the mane comb, for the tail you use the body brush which is also
for the body of your pony and use the hoof pick for the hooves. A horse which is kept
in a paddock in the winter time should have a warm rug.‘ ‘ By Samantha Rust

'HOw TO CARE ABOUT DOGS. Dogs are animals. They will be kind to you if you are kind
to them. You have to look after them. To look after a dog you should give it a place
to sleep, wash its water bowl, give it new water every day, give it good food, wash it
and give it walks every day. That is how you look after a dog. If you don't do this

then your dog will get very sick. It may die if you don't so look after your dog.‘
— By Mark WOng

'CAMERON LOSES HIS TAIL! ..Next day we went to visit my cat, he didn't look very well
but he was in good hands. He wasn't eating very much but the vet said he was getting
better. Every day we went to visit him but his tail wasn't improving and the vet said
he would have to have it amputated. I was very upset but I knew it was for his own
good. Days passed and my cat was allowed home. we had to hand feed him for quite a
long time until he was able to eat by himself. After a few months my cat was much
better and our family were able to play with him. I was very happy. Some people
don't like my cat without a tail but I think he is CUTE! He looks like a BEAR!‘

_ By Danielle Turner

LEAFLETS
From Jess Toghill.

1. A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast.

Old Testament Proverbs X11.1O
2. The nobler the soul is, the more objects of compassion it hath.

Francis Bacon 1561 — 1625.

The year has brought many requests from children for the League's literature, many of
whom have expressed their great love of animals and some, a desire to work with animals
when the school years are over.

we were also pleased to welcome as a full member from the ranks of the above, Tim Buddle
of St. Ives, whose offer to help in the work of the League after his completion of the
H.S.C., was greatly appreciated.

Another encouraging aspect has been to receive letters from teachers asking for litera—
ture for inclusion in the material to be used in their work with schoolchildren; we
feel that it is possible, in this way, to ensure a wider distribution of information.

Special mention must be made of Mrs. Ruth SHELTON of Nambour, Old., who, by a wonderful
effort during "Be Kind to Animals Week", collected a substantial sum of money for the
League. To her and all those who contributed so generously, our grateful thanks.

14.

 

'\\\

r\/

 

 




T

3" MONKEY AND ALL "

By Junior Member Claire Heckendorf (aged 15 years)

. ’

Claire has incorporated into the life of one monkey some of the
atrocities in the form of laboratory experiments, that take
place. (Over an estimated 250,000,000 animals die in
laboratories throughout the world every year)

FOR THEM ALL . . .

Once upon a time — TODAY - there lived a happy monkey.
His name was Benteh.

He was a harmless mischievous monkey.

He laughed a lot and spent his time making others happy.
He had dreams of a happy future -

with a she—monkey and baby monkeys ...

But one day ... some MONSTERS came into the jungle.
They attacked the jungle.

They were called M A N.

They took Banteh from his home.

They took many animals from their homes -

and threw them all into a CAGE.

Then — they put Benteh in a TINY cage: ALL BY HIMSELF
He was FR I GHTENEQJ

 
   

 

Banteh was put in a LABORATORY.

  
 
 
 

The scientist wanted to experiment on Banteh & the other animals.
The scientist wanted to make ANOTHER shampoo.
The scientist wanted to make

MONEY. MONEY. MONEY.

They put CHEMICALS into Banteh's eyes.
Hemmt BLIND.

They put Banteh into a STEEL BOX.
They beat on it CBNTINUALLY
"my TURNED UP L.O U!)
N O | S E S through the BOX.
Banteh became DEAF.

They injected chemicals into Banteh's BACK-

  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

jam mecor HIS SPINE.
Eh ‘} BANTEH WAS PARALYZED.
Qb ‘ ' 1 ' HEART
qh.f ‘ ’ k*-T~¥vﬁ All Banteh had left now, UNTOUCHED, was hlS
ﬁi‘: “ “ ‘ 80, They stuck a K N I F E in 1t.
\j‘ I v
:S ‘ , Banteh was D E A D ...
\
\t . .
Sb , . 3. They had no more USE for Banteh. H15 body wangggg::SR$p
>5~i Lia MsbmwtwsfaiwtmemmsthgmndeE '
gg + New — there was N 0 Evidence.

‘VV NEVER - -

THE END.

 

 

:1;- ." E; 150

 

 




The bells of heaven

 

'Twould ring the bells of heaven
The wildest peal for years,
If Parson lost his senses
And people came to theirs,
And he and they together
Knelt down with angry prayers
For tamed and shabby tigers,
And dancing dogs and bears,
And wretched, blind pit-ponies
And little hunted hares.

- Ralph Hodgson (19th Century)

* * '* * * * *

Christmas Cards

 

This year The World League has decided to print its own Christmas cards.
we plan to print 2000 — the card will be a simple and attractive design
in gold on good quality white paper with the following message -
'Peace on earth. goodwill to all living creatures.’

We expect to be able to sell them at 35¢ each or 10 for $3.50 + postage.
They will be available at the end of August on request from Joan Papayanni
— 'phone 817-3455. Cheque or postal note with order would be appreciated.

 

Origin of the League

 

The League was founded by Miss Kate Deighton and Rudolf Bergner in Germany in
1898, and formally organised in Paris in 1900. The English Branch of the
League was established in 1900 by Miss A.L. WOOdward, and she continued to
direct its activities until her death in 1921.

There was a second Congress in Frankfurt, and a third In Helsingborg. The
famous Fourth Triennial International Congress of the Wbrld League Against
Vivisection and for the Protection of Animals, as it was then known, was held
at Caxton Hall, westminster, London, from July 19th to 24th, 1909.

The 1909 Congress was attended by many distinguished Members and delegates
from Europe, America, Canada and over 20 other countries, who spoke eloquently
of their work. As well as the President, there were 12 Vice-Presidents of the
League, and almost 90 Vice-Presidents of the Congress.

At the time the League had great support in British Parliament, no less than
44 Members of Parliament, including 4 future Prime Ministers, attending the
Congress, and if WOrld war I had not intervened we would have a much more hum-
ane Cruelty to Animals Act. Plans were well in hand to alter and improve most
of it.

On October 4th, 1928, the League inaugurated Wbrld Day for Animals, which is
still universally held the First Sunday in October.

 

 

 

 

PLEASE NOTE NEW ADDRESS:

World League for Protection of Animals,
Box 211, RC. Gladesvillej N.S.W., 2111.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

INTERNATIONAL WILDLIFE COALITION
90?;azé4 #1,“;99?‘

Governing
Board of Trustees

 

Chairman
Daniel J. Morast
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer

Vice Chairman
Stephen Best
Chief Operations Officer

Donna Hart M
Senior Program Director 8 °

Christine G. Stevens
WmmmRmt Roger Stevens Family Fund

Maw 1200 New Hampshire Avenue, N.W.
Secretary Washington, D.C. 20036

R. David Esdale
General Manager

Dear Ms. Stevens:
International Offices

 

I am writing on behalf of the International Wildlife Coalition. We'
”fébmﬁﬂﬁﬁxf£' are currently researching several grant possibilities relative to our
Wtﬂggg%;§“” work in wildlife preservation and conservation. We would very much
lWC—kahmnus apprec1ate receiVing a copy of your latest annual report, grant application

3m0mmdama guidelines, program policy statement, and/or other pertinent information
F l th, M h tt 02540 . . . . . . .
a”w”6n§$§£zs you can send us regarding your giVing pOIlCles and restrictions.

lWC — Midwest

POlhx%i% Our international administrative headquarters is in Falmouth,
Elsah, Illinois

6m3M4m5 Massachusetts and our U.S. campaign headquarters is in Washington, D.C.,
[WC_Cmmm but our projects and personnel are located throughout the world. Consequently,

mzwgﬁgﬁawad we would appreciate it if you would not let our adjoining list of locations
Ul

-mmma0mmmmamm7 limit the information you send us. Please send the information to the

416-487-4681 .
attention of:
lWC —— United Kingdom
26 North Street

1%WMmWWﬁS%%X - Mrs. Jonatha Kentro
United Kingdom RH12 lBH

Horsham (0403) 50557 IWC
[WC —- Netherlands 40 7 State Street
Doelstraat 34 P . O . BOX ' 20190

3155 AH

Maasland, Netherlands Santa Barbara, Ca 93120
01899-15195

IWC- We have included a general fact sheet about IWC for your information.
Affiliated Organizations

 

Thank you. We look forward to your prOmpt reply.
l'KARE Wildlife Trust

Kangaroo Protection Foundation S incere 1y ,

National Animal Rights

wammn INTERNATIONAL WILDLIFE COALITION

ARKOll

. . v I 1" 2 f [A 1/
Animal Rights Network (/1; , )/ /" _ __
Hinzfz.‘ .12, . ~ 7c~
/;
by,

Care for the Wild

National Society for the
Abolition of Cruel Sports Jonatha Kentro

JK/scr

320 Gifford Street, Falmouth, Massachusetts 02540

 




Governing
Board of Trustees

 

Chairman
Daniel J. Morast
Chief Executive Officer

Vice Chairman
Stephen Best
Chief Operations Officer

Donna Hart
Senior Program Director

Virginia Root
Trustee

Secretary

R. David Esdale
General Manager

International Offices

 

IWC — Washington, DC.
1346 Connecticut Ave., NW.
Washington, DC. 20036
202-331—3206

IWC -- Headquarters
320 Gifford Street
Falmouth, Massachusetts 02540
617-540-8086

IWC — Midwest
PO. Box 142
Elsah. Illinois 62028
618-374-1745

IWC —— Canada
542 Mount Pleasant Road
Suite ”103
Toronto, Ontario M4S 2M7
416-487-4681

IWC —— United Kingdom
26 North Street
Horsham, West Sussex
United Kingdom RH12 IBN
Horsham (0403) 50557

, IWC — Netherlands
Doelstraat 34

3155 AH Maasland
Netherlands
01899-15195

IWC-
Affiliated Organizations

 

I'KARE Wildlife Trust

Whale Adoption Project
Whale Rescue Project

Kangaroo Protection Fund

National Animal Rights
Association

ARKOII
Animal Rights Network

Care for the Wild

Board of
Scientific Advisors

Dr. David M. Lavigne
Chairman

Dr. Vernon Thomas
Zoologisl

Dr. William Jordan
Veterinary Surgeon

Dr. Peter Rawlinson
Zoologist

é?“

 

 

FACT SHEET 1985 - \

A growing international association of professional scientists,
lawyers, educators, grass-roots lobbyists, and experienced
animal welfare advocates,

. . . dedicated to promoting a positive educational
interaction with wildlife,

. . . committed to countering the abuses associated
with wildlife exploitation worldwide.

In St. Anthony, Newfoundland, in 1977, conservationists Dan Morast
and Donna Hart met filmmaker and political activist Stephen Best. Then
working for different organizations, the three had been brought
together to establish an effective international protest against the
excessive slaughter of newborn harp seals in Atlantic Canada.

The seal hunt campaign took them throughout the United States,
Canada and most of Europe, and similar wildlife projects for animals
ranging from whales and wolves to wild cats and primates brought
them to Africa, Australia and South America.

In each country the major abuses were the same.

* Excessive kill quotes for certain species had been justified
with distorted science.

* Acts of cruelty during capture, killing or transport
were blatantly ignored.

* Public protest over the many cases of wildlife abuse and
habitat destruction lost out when matched against government
agencies and commercial wildlife merchants.

In the spring of 1984 the end of the commercial seal hunt
was finally at hand. The original team of Morast, Hart and Best
(now supported by specialists from numerous countries) decided
to expand upon the lessons learned in the global campaign against
the harp seal slaughter and apply them to the much larger and
tougher problems still threatening the world’s wild animals.

In January 1986 their efforts resulted in the formation of the
International Wildlife Coalition.

Six separate wildlife and animal welfare organizations, two each
in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, combined
their individual efforts and pledged a unified front against those
involved in the abuse of wildlife.

Recognizing that excessive exploitation and the needless or cruel
slaughter of animals is part of a worldwide business, the Coalition’s
member groups, now sharing a central Governing Board of Trustees,
adopted a mandate to work effectively across national boundaries.

Three offices in the United States and one each in England, Holland
and Canada were opened. An independent international board of
scientific advisors was established and ten priority areas
of concern were identified.

 

INTERNATIONAL WILDLIFE COALITION 1807 H Street, N.W. #305, Washington, 0.0. 20006

 

 




PRO D E N A BOLIVIA

Asociacién Boliviana Pro—Defensa de la Naturaleza
(The Bolivian Wildlife Society)
Casilla 4422
La Paz -— Bolivia

PB081 Paz, 27 May 1986

Miss Christine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
P. 0. Box 3650
WASHINGTON

D.C. 20007

USA

Dear Miss Stevens,

We have been informed by Mr. Reginald Hardy of your
very kind donation of US$ 1.000 to help us open our own office here
in La Paz.

It comes at a critical time and, on behalf of our
Society, I wish to thank you. It is very generous and encouraging. It
was a great shock suddenly finding ourselves unwelcome in the office
we have been allowed to use for the last few years, as a result of
threats made by the wildlife traffickers. Right now we are working
with difficulty from my home, but it is not central and not as many
people are coming to help. It is difficult to raise money locally at
this time with the tin price. Life is difficult here and our active
members cannot spend too much time doing things they are not paid for.
I also lost my job (I was working for PRODENA in my spare time) but
Mr Hardy ensured that I would now be paid by the Society, but we need
at least two part—time paid workers as well. Also we have to find an
office, furniture and telephone. So your contribution will help us.

Dr Shirley McGreal has also helped us and we are
hping that WWF—US will as well. Ginette Hemley of TRAFFIC (USA) sug»
gested to Mr Hardy that we submit a proposal and this I sent off on
16 May asking for US$ 2.500 for 1986 and hope they agree to that at

least.

I am sure we will survive but meantime many things
are being neglected due to all this trouble resulting from our fight
for the 600 monos. Now we hear from Mr Hardy that they want 2.000
more. We will be able to fight against that too if more kind people
like you help us. Again, thank you, and our best wishes to you and
your Society.

7

/

.I’

/’“‘.
r" '

5 - /l
; 'WWW’ / .3;
,ﬁﬂauﬂav%?§éf§
“Sra. Cynthia Gonzél Z

Secretary—General

 




BOLIVIAN WILDLIFE SOCIETY— UK (PRODENABOLIVIA)

Telephone: (060 085) 388 Tan-yr-allt
Telex: 497497 PRODEN G Talycoed Lane

Llantilio Crossenny
Gwent NP7 8TH
United Kingdom

EUL1782 20 May 1986

Miss Christine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
POBox 3650

WASHINGTON

DC 20007

USA

Dear Christine

Bless you! Yesterday I handed mail to our local postman which included an en—
velope for you enclosing News Sheet #04. In return he handed me a batch of
letters which included yours of 13MAY enclosing a cheque for $1.000 towards
the cost of PRODENA La Paz opening their own office.

I am advising Cynthia Gonzalez of this immediately and she will undoubtedly be
thanking you direct. She has been through a very traumatic time and is doing
her best to keep the group together, but all this has resulted in a loss of
steam and much, like the follow—up on the '600 monos' affain has not material—
ised, and I am not being fed with information. Fortunately, I have a visit
planned for next month and I will be able to do some boiler stoking.

It is also fortunate that during my last visit in February I was able to be
granted a '10—minute' interview with the President, to which I took Cynthia,

and we were with him for 45 minutes. He was truly interested in what we had to
say and I took advantage of an opportune moment to ask whether he would not

like to become Honorary President of PRODENA, which he accepted without hesi-
tation. I now have a direct line to him, helped by one of our Trustees, Margaret
Anstee, who is Assistant Secretary—General of United Nations in New York who
knows him well.

But funding is always a problem. Our accounts now being prepared show that my
wife and I have so far put in well over $50.000 of our own money into building
up PRODENA Bolivia, BWS—UK and BWS—US and, although this includes the purchase
of the Estancia, cannot continue indefinitely. Once we have the agreement signed
with the Government over Amboro I feel that WWF—US should help us, based on what
the new President, William Kelly, had to say in the JAN/FEB issue of 'focus'. I
have found that Russell Train left Bolivia to Curtis Freese who, for reasons
best known to himself, is not exactly pro—Bolivia, or possibly not pro—Hardy!
They have done nothing to help Bolivia for quite a few years now, although my
lobbying did cause Curt to send out a nice young man, Carlos Saavedra, earlier
this year to have a look and show the flag. It would be a good start if they
accepted the proposal sent in by Cynthia Gonzalez, but I feel they should do
much more than that. When I get that agreement signed I will write to William
Kelly. If you could 'soften him up' a bit first it would help! Meantime my best
regards to all at AWI.

x/7 '
FUQTh‘tQ 090V W3; 04 Mum Asa a-r
C‘E‘Q'f [$40 (WM "7": {Tm

 

ARITY 290268
/ REGISTERED CH

 




BOLIVIAN WILDLIFE SOCIETY— UKwRooENABOLW)

Telephone: (060085) 388 Tan-yr-allt ‘
Telex: 497497 PRODEN G ' Talycoed Lane
:Nsnws:als-HLEE.an-...Number;-.04. 17 MAY 1986 g'fvgﬂ'tiijgfgﬁﬁmy
Unnedlﬁngdoni
SOME GOOD and SOME BAD -- or as the barrow—boy said.'yer pays yer money and

yer takes yer pick'.

 

GOOD: His Excellency the Constitutional President of Bolivia, Dr Victor Paz
Estenssoro, is now Honorary President of Bolivian Wildlife Society (PRODENA
BOLIVIA) worldwide. "

BAD: Of the 361 unfortunate primates which arrived at Miami on lSJAN last, 3

were dead on arrival, the 20 Night or Owl Monkeys were sent directly to a research
centre, but the 338 remaining Squirrel Monkeys were delivered into the 'Careing'
hands of millionaire wildlife dealer Matthew Block's Worldwide Primates Inc in
Miami whereas I had been told by a senior USGovernment Official that they had all
been distributed to research centres immediately on arrival. So despite similar
assurances by senior USCovernment Officials that this was only a temporary move
(good choice of word that), who can be sure that they are not diverted elsewhere?
AID have stated that they have no intention of returning them to Bolivia.

BADDER: In a letter to The Humane Society of the US, AID also state 'at no time
have our experts ever suggested that more than 2.000 will be required....'. Yer
just pays yer money and yer can take yer pick, or so they think. Hard to believe,
isn't it? Do you want that to happen? Well, if not help us. At this stagelexpress
my sincere thanks to the few that already have.

 

EVEN WORSE: Until very recently, PRODENA in La Paz were given the use of a fur—
nished office by a local commercial company, to which we express our gratitude,
with full office facilities, i.e. telephone, telex and copying, etc. But at the
time of their exposure of the ‘Monkey Business' (NS#03), it was politely suggested
to the owners of the property that something unpleasant might happen if the com—
mercial company continued to house PRODENA. Result? PRODENA La Paz, who has taken
on the wildlife dealers single—handed,have no office and this action group is in
danger of being disbanded unless some of the major conservation organisations
realise the necessity of keeping them going and come up with funding. IPPL has,
to use Shirley McGreal's own words, 'put its money where its mouth is‘ (what a
luvverly expression!), and have donated $1.000. We are helping with $500 (I wish
we could afford more) and others have promised to chip in, and I hope that more
will follow suit. Anyone out there listening?

FRIGHTENING: The ban on the export of wildlife and wildlife products comes to an
end on 30 July next and the wildlife traders submitted their 'shopping lists' as %*
far back as February of last year, before they knew the ban then in force was to
be extended. These lists are still on file and all the traders are now rubbing
their hands and saying 'Hi! Only 75 shopping days to Christmas!‘. Whilst the
President and two Cabinet Ministers have expressed themselves in favour of exten—
ding the ban for a further period (thanks to the efforts of PRODENA), there is
very considerable pressure on, and lobbying by, Senators and Deputies for it not
to be extended, which would undoubtedly please all wildlife dealers and, it would
seem, AID as well. Now, if the action group of PRODENA in La Paz do not have the
facilities to keep up their pressure and lobbying, do not blame us if there is
bloody animal mayhem. All conservation and animal protection groups, companies,
corporations, and individuals must blame themselves for not coming to the rescue
with hard cash. BWS—UK is a registered charity as you see below. BWS—US is fully
tax—deductible. So it won't hurt that much. It really is a frightening thought,
that the ban may not be extended. Even the CITES formula, if it works, does but
little to make it less frightening. So — take yer pick.

 

_.

These 'shopping lists' include over 10.000 primates ' .......... 2
and more than 300.000 birds — mainly Macaws.

REGISTERED CHARITY 290268

 




NEWS SHEET Number 04 — 2 — 17MAY86

 

GOOD: The US State Department do not entirely agree with the manner in which AID
is handling the matter, and I, for one, would like to thank the US Embassy in

La Paz for their encouraging attitude towards PRODENA and its activities. I but

wish they had a fund from which they could help us financially! Maybe they have?

GOOD: The Luceros or Oil Bird Project in the Chapare is going well with bird
population increasing in both caves. There is every indication that the area
will shortly be declared a Wildlife Sanctuary or Refuge by Supreme Decree in the
best interests of their permanent conservation.

GOOD: The Muchachos Education Project is assured as a result of additional fund~
ing by oneof our US Directors. José Granados Argote is heading for his second
year of biology at the University of San Simon in Cochabamba, and Saul Arias
Cossio will join him in September of this year.

GOOD: The scientific reports of Operation Raleigh's Expedition 3A to Amboro have
come in and are now being finalised. They make impressive reading and will form
a sound basis for further studies. Copies in both English and Spanish will be on
sale later in the year.

GOOD: An Expedition from Durham University will be in Amboro from mid—July to
mid—September of this year to follow up on some of the studies initiated by Op—
Raleigh. They will be based at our Estancia and will be joined by 3 Bolivian
students, 1 from La Paz and 2 from Cochabamba. It is hoped that ICBP will fund
Saul Arias Cossio and another of our Muchachos to carry out an ornithological
project studying migratory birds from the summit of Cerro Amboro, for which the
expedition would provide back—up.

VERY GOOD: An agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture (MACA) and the CDF

on the one side, with PRODENA and BWS—UK on the other, is being prepared for
signature. The agreement commits MACA-CDF to the active management and protection
of Parque Nacional Amboro in accordance with the articles of Supreme Decree No.
20423 of 16AUG84 which prohibit further colonisation, hunting, timber and all
other forms of exploitation. On the other hand we would then undertake to develop
our Estancia San Rafael de Amboro, with the help of other conservation groups and
sources of funding, into a Research Centre with biological study and educational
facilities, captive breeding and paramedical units, an agriculture experimental
station, facilities for visiting scientists and students, and a forward base camp
for Park personnel with grazing facilities for their horses. A scientific program
for both the Park and the Research Centre would be prepared in conjunction with
UTD—CDF and all public bodies in Santa Cruz and scientific authorities both within
and outside of Bolivia.

GOOD: The British Tropical Agricultural Mission, based in Santa Cruz, is currently
taking soil samples at the Estancia in order to determine whether it would be
suitable for their experimental growing of tree crops such as cocoa and coffee.

GOOD: Jersey Wildlife Preservation Trust has sent a letter to President Victor Paz
Estenssoro offering their help in the training of personnel for the captive breed—
ing unit. It is hoped that a biologist who recently completed an intensive course
there, will assist us this year with the initial planning of the Research Centre.

BAD: We are in dire need of funds to keep our BoliVian Conservation Ball rolling.
PRODENA is now recognised as the only conservation group working throughout the
Bolivia. We cover all aspects, from working for better wildlife legislation, taking
on the wildlife dealers' dubious deals, trying to save the fast—going habitat by
persuading the Government to activate Parks and trying to persuade wealthy groups
to help them do this, educating the peOple both by funding budding biologists thro'
University and trying to make others conservation—conscious, through to the rehabi—
litation of wildlife to their natural habitat (I won't mention trying to locate
monkeys in Miami!). To do all this we need money, which means more members and
donations, grants or plain funding. lf you already are a member try and enroll (or
2) more , for which a form is enclosed. We badly need a few major sponsors in both
US + UK (or elsewhere for that matter). Over to you.

PS: $1.000 just in from Animal Welfare
Institute for PRODENA.La Paz Action

\ 1&1 “m . £10 / Group Office. Please emulate!
INAJJ) HAPQ;_ airman and Executive Director US + UK

5' ’4'

 

 

 




September

Hon. Susan Recce

Acting Assistant Secretary,
Fish & Wildlife & Parks,
U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service
500 Broyhill

Washington, D.C. 20240

Dear Ms. Reece,

Responding to the notice in The Eederal Register August 10,
1988, on behalf of the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation I wish to submit the following comments.

Section 14.;gg Qefinitigns Transport of animals to the
United States, as distinct from interstate transport may have
to be different. Certainly, in the instance cited, an
elephant being imported by air should be in an individual
enclosure, although circus elephants going together by truck
would not necessarily require separate enclosures.
Explanation in the preface to the regulations should be made

in any instances which require such clarification.

Section léilgé

The requirement that any certification in a foreign language
be accompanied by an English translation must accompany the
shipment. This requirement is essential for law enforcement
purposes and must be retained.

Regarding “obvious distress", there should be no weakening ofs
the requirement that information describing obvious distress
be attached to the enclosure. This is essential for law
enforcement purposes. In the event that an individual
untrained airline employee misinterprets signs of distress,
enforcement personnel have no obligation to accept any
particular interpretation; however, if there is no
information supplied because the observer doesn't know
whether or not the signs are "well known" FWS agents have to
Operate without information. The requirement should be
retained.

The decision to retain "physical trauma" as is, is wise.

Explanation in the preamble that there may be several
"primary conveyances“ is appropriate.

Avoidance of "psychological trauma" is essential and should
not be deleted in any part. Permanent damage or death can
result from the fear many species suffer in transport.

 




-2-

Sufficient air is absolutely essential, and it is not enough
to explain in the preamble that it was insufficient if
animals show evidence of respiratory stress or suffocation,
though that, obviously, would be cause for prosecution. Air
quality should be equal to that in passenger cabins. Any
standard lower than that is unacceptable. The notice states;
"...1ack of ventilation is probably the greatest cause of
mortality in wildlife shipments." These regulations specify
"humane and healthful transport". They must therefore,

suffocation", not just prosecute after the fact if they
happened to catch up with a high mortality shipment. The
definition should state plainly that ventilation must be
equal to that supplied human passengers in the plane.

ﬁggtign 141105 igl

The lower limit on time of tender must not be eliminated.
That is an exceedingly dangerous suggestion which deserves no
consideration at all. We support changing the upper limit to
six hours and the lower to two hours.

Section 14.105

We suggest that the requirements of the pr0posed and final
rule be combined so that the veterinarian be salaried and
certified by the government of the exporting country.

Section 14.105 191

Sick or injured animals. What is meant by "the inspecting
veterinarian"? Why does the pet industry want to ship
injured animals? There appears to be no valid reason to
alter the final rule.

Section 14. 106 Lai

The concept of pr0portionality is sound. Large numbers of
birds and mammals should not be shipped in a single enclosure
because of ventilation problems and other problems. If limits
are set on spacer bars, they must also be placed on numbers
of occupants in the enclosure.

Section lAilQQ lfl

All relevant documents should be attached to the primary
enclosure. Because smuggling is common, caution should be
exercised in limiting the documents required.

Food should not be scattered on the floor. Food troughs must
be provided as proposed in the final rule. Wood floats, not
sponge or plastic, should be used.

Section 14.106 (e)
Concur with potential approach on marking and lettering.

 




...3._

§eQ§iQn 144191 ldl

It is essential that enclosures containing live animals be
easily removable in case of emergency. This requirement must
take precedence over competing problems. If this requirement
cannot be met, the animals should not be placed on the
airplane.

ﬁegtion léilgﬁ lbi
Retain the term "potable water" as in the final rule.

Section 14.103 Lei
AdOpt the potential approach: that is replenishing food for
any onward journey

 

We agree with the potential approach suggested.

Section 14.102 L91

Pressurization is essential for carriage of live animals.
Ventilation and pressurization are separate entities, and
both must be addressed. What mammals or birds "would not be
harmed by lower pressure"?

Section léilQQ 1:1

Human olfactory capabilities are generally grossly inferior
to those of other mammals, and smell can cause terror and
panic. For example, a dog walking in a park can become
intensely fearful from the scent of big members of the cat
family in a nearby zoo, even though they are not in view.
Under no circumstances should large predators be carried

in the same hold as smaller animals.

Section léilQﬂ 191
Intermediate off loading should be avoided unless it is
necessary to maintain humane and healthful ambient

temperature for the birds or mammals. If a plane has to
remain on the ground for repairs, the animals should be
removed to shelter from extreme heat or cold. They should
not be left on the tarmac.

ﬁegtign léillz

The final rule on this section is very important and must be
retained. If Federal Aviation Administration certification
is required for attachment of monitoring equipment it should
be obtained. Temperature monitoring equipment is simple,
readily available, and should be used on all flights on which
animals are conveyed.

§ection 14.121 LbL
"Humane and gealthful Transport" means that animals carrying
severe transmissible infections must not be mixed with

 




-4-

healthy animals. A negative tuberculosis test is an
important means of preventing spread of disease and should be
retained.

§ection§ 14,12; LQLL 14:14; Lbl, 14.152 (Cl; 14.172 L91

If any change is made permitting exceptions for certain
species to travel in groups, the group size must be limited
and documented for each species.

Section 14.124 Lbl

The basic reason for not mingling different species of
primates in a cargo hold is that it increases the likelihood
of spread of an infection to which one group has developed
resistance whereas the other has not. Primates housed in
research laboratories are routinely housed in separate rooms

primarily for this reason.
§e2tigu léllll lal
The final rule should be retained.

Add requirement that the water trough be so placed as not be
be hazardous to the animal.

Birds that rest by perching must be given that Opportunity in

transit. The need for perches is rec0gnized by everyone
except those commercial bird dealers who habitually seek to
cut costs at the expense of the birds.

Sections 14.18; LC); 14.192 Lg)

Birds should be able to stretch one wing at a time while in
transit. This should be made clear in the text. It is
neither necessary nor desirable to "deve10p another approach
to ensuring adequate space within enclosures.“ The final
rule should stand as it is with any further explanatory
information which may be considered necessary.

Section 1411§2 is)

There appears to be no compelling reason to mix Species of
birds in a single enclosure. Were the final rule to be
relaxed, however, enforcement would be substantially
complicated since it would be necessary for inspectors to
consult a list of species determined to be 100% compatible (a
difficult task) and then identify the species before
releasing the shipment. Massive mortality among small birds
in transit results from careless practices. Mixing Species is
a symptom of such careless attitudes.

Additional Issues
Temperature ranges. Temperatures inside crates in hot
weather are higher than the ambient temperatures routinely

 

 

 




...5..

measured. Mammals and birds shipped from tropical countries,
therefore, are especially in need of protection from lethally
high temperatures inside the crates. There is no threat of
hypothermia in the final rule. The example (elephants) given
in the commentary fail to recognize behavior such as mud
wallowing engaged in by elephants in the wild but denied to
them in transit.

Massive deaths of wild birds prior to as well as during
transit owing to excessive heat are fully documented. They
must be protected against this suffering by the Humane and
Healthful Transport regulations. The final rule should not
be weakened.

Restraints on birds

Flamingos should not be shipped unaccompanied by an
attendant because of the high mortality in shipping this
species.

No comments are being provided on other provisions of the
final rule because it is our assumption that they will remain
intact and not be considered for change. If this assumption
is incorrect, please advise, and we will supply comments.

Our organization has access to technically qualified persons,
as noted in the concluding paragraph of the notice. If the

advice of such experts is wanted, please notify us.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Secretary

 




Interim Officers, 1988-89

Brent Berlin (USA)
President

Marcie Campos (Brazil)
Secretary

Miguel Angel Martinez
(Mexico), Treasurer

Standing Committees:

Guillermo Archibol
(Panama)

Alejandro Camino
(Peru)

Nelson Papavero
(Brazil)

Darrell Posey
(Brazil-USA)
Elizabeth Reiehel

(Colombia)
Pei Sheng—ji
(China)

Correspondence:

ISE, 2220 Piedmont Ave.
University of California
’ CA 94720

H I-.. .,,
Um hid/1.41 n .
(‘i l
3‘31“.“

Telephone:
(415) 642-2031
EMail:
178berli@qal.berkeley.edu
FAX-

(415) 643-8245

5“)“ so) ,5 1‘57:
monk 9m Z,»

\0

L1

. -"
i ”A

INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY 0f ETHNOBIOLOGY

CRISTINE STEVENS
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
1686 34 th STREET. Nw ( P.O.
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20007

U. S. A.

BOX 3650)

Dear Fellow:

'Welcome to ISE,

and thank you for your
suscription fee for this '

year.

We are working with Dr. Berlin, Dr.
Papavero, and I in the organization for the
next international symposium at China
(october 1990). ‘i

If you wish more and detailed information
Please write to our president. '

Dr. Brent Berlin
University of California
at Berkeley, Department of
Anthropology, Berkeley

CA 94720, USA. .

' Sincerely ,
a v 5/

dartinez

 




ﬂ If you wish more information. Please
whrite to Dr. Berlin, Department of Anthropology at
Berkeley, Berkeley CA 94720 USA. or Dr.

Dr; Pie-Sheng~ji_
Kunming Institute of
Botany, Academia SLNica.
Heilongtan, Kunming,
Yunnan,China.

Mrs. Cai Zhongming

Yunnan Association for
Science and Technology
Kunming, Yunnan, China.

T
I’ ‘ 5 i I ,
t ' ’ , // ,/‘
gi¢Qﬁ£¢é ,. 5 /Z%vﬂ/Q¢¢)é/(¥

Ml,déi A. Martinez A.,J
ghacan, Apdo.PostalL%O-6l4,

Co,
04510
Mexico. D.F.

 




‘1 1111’ 11.4111];

.1
“Wu. 1

111U * ‘ Center for Marine Conservation-What We Do Page 1 of 3
{’1

'r I J
l
L

Stopping Dolphins From Drowning in Tuna Nets

In 1972, nearly 500,000 dolphins were killed during tuna purse seine operations in the Eastern Tropical
Paciﬁc (ETP), a six million square mile area marked by San Diego in the north, south to southern Peru
and west to 160 W longitude. Fishers would capitalize on the fact that yellowﬁn tuna often swam in the
company of dolphins. They would surround or encircle these schools with milelong purse seine nets that
trapped both the dolphin and the tuna. During the pursing or closing and retrieval of the net, many of the
dolphins would drown. Through the 19703 and 19803 modiﬁcations to tuna ﬁshing gear and procedures
dictated by the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA) somewhat reduced the mortality, but in 1988
the number of dolphins dying annually in that ﬁshery still hovered around 100,000.

That year, a video documenting the atrocity of "setting on dolphins" stirred public outrage against the
practice and fueled renewed efforts to end dolphin deaths in the tuna industry. Three actions taken
between 1988 and 1992 were pivotal in propelling this issue toward resolution. First, the United States
implemented embargoes against foreign tuna ﬁshing nations. The other two, examined in more detail
below, are the labeling of canned tuna as "Dolphin Safe," and the development of international measures
to protect dolphins. '

Dolphin Safe Label-Didn't Quite Work

Faced with threatened consumer boycotts of tuna, in 1990 the three largest US. tuna canners announced
they would no longer purchase tuna caught in association with dolphins. This voluntary policy, later
codiﬁed in the Dolphin Protection Consumer Information Act (DPCIA), required that all canners
labelling tuna products as "dolphin safe" be able to verify that the tuna was not caught using either purse
seine nets that encircled dolphins or driftnets. A federal tracking and veriﬁcation system was devised to
track labeled tuna back to the ﬁshing vessel to verify the product claim.

Since the dolphin-safe tuna label was implemented, consumers have been under the false impression that
dolphins are no longer being encircled or drowned in tuna nets in the ETP. This is not true-—dolphins
were and still are dying in tuna nets. Additionally, the dolphin safe label does not guarantee that no
dolphins died, because ﬁshing methods deemed "dolphin safe" such as school and log sets can still result
in dolphin deaths and be labeled as "dolphin safe."

A consequence of the dolphin safe requirement, was the US. ﬂeet moved to the western Paciﬁc to ﬁsh
for tuna not in association with dolphins and the major canneries stopped purchasing tuna from the ETP.
Consequently, the "dolphin safe" label did virtually nothing to stop dolphin mortality in the ETP.

In fact, the DPCIA did little to change the ﬁshing practices of international ﬁshers in the ETP. Since
1990, Latin American ﬁshers have reduced both their total dolphin mortality by 97% and their dolphin
mortality per set by 93%. However, they continue to encircle dolphins in the ETP at relatively the same
rate as in earlier years. For example, between 1980 to 1996, as a percentage of total sets, sets encircling
dolphins represent 52% of the total sets made between 1980 and 1990, and 54% between 1990 and
1996. On the other hand, although the relative rate of sets made on dolphins did not decrease
signiﬁcantly after the passage of the "dolphin safe", dolphin mortality per set did decrease from 5.0 in
1990 to 0.33 in 1996. Moreover, the percentage of sets that involved no dolphin mortality increased
from 54% to 85% during that same time period. Both of these measures demonstrate that ﬁshers are
rescuing greater numbers of dolphins and ﬁshing with less mortality.

Unintended Consequences of the Dolphin Safe Label

http://www.cmc-ocean.org/2_bp/22237.php3 4/30/01

 




‘Center for Marine Conservation-What We Do Page 3 of 3

requires examination into the impact of chase and encirclement on dolphin biology and health prior to
modifying the dolphin safe label.

Third, the Panama Declaration will protect the Eastern Tropical Paciﬁc ecosystem, the tuna ﬁshery by
requiring the ﬁshery to reduce their bycatch of other marine life.

A Win-Win Situation

We must improve protection for dolphins, the ocean, and other marine life. On August 15, 1997 we did
just that. On that date, President Clinton signed into law The International Dolphin Conservation
Program Act which will allow the US. to work with other nations to devise and implement the Panama
Declaration as a binding legal international agreement to protect dolphins, tuna, the tuna ﬁshery, and
other marine life. With passage of this legislation, the U.S. has locked in progress made under the
existing voluntary international agreement -- progress that has reduced dolphin deaths from 100,000 in
1989 to fewer than 2,700. The new agreement will potentially completely eliminate dolphin deaths.

The new law will also ﬁx a dolphin safe label that didn't work. A label that hadn't stopped the intentional
encirclement of dolphins, it wasn't stopping dolphins from dying, and it certainly wasn't protecting
marine life or the marine environment. In fact it was causing greater damage by killing sharks, sea
turtles, swordﬁsh, food ﬁsh for dolphins and baby tuna. Dolphin safe wasn't dolphin safe because is
wasn't ocean safe! The new law actually achieves what the old label purported to do. It married that
label to an international program that will in fact protect dolphins, marine life, and tuna.

The new law is a win-win victory for dolphins, other ocean creatures, and consumers. With all of the
required studies and improved tracking and veriﬁcation system it will improve the dolphin safe label.
Now consumers can be conﬁdent that dolphin safe means what it says, and that when consumers see that
label they are guaranteed that neither dolphins nor the ecosystem were harmed to catch that tuna.

Return to The Marine Mammals Protection Act and Related Conservation Issues

http://www.cmc-ocean.org/2_bp/22237.php3 4/3 0/01

 




~ .-r . :e e ,L ,. AGRICULTURE & FISHERIES
é r3 A: H? ”“‘ E E ‘» ' . DEPARTMENT
—* mg

ll. ”E E??? ER ,3 .1 <- .4 m .5.S};,;é§ffi"’,‘,/ Canton Road Government Ofﬁces
1 :i: is £21 lit {tr t .5: r: " 'V’ 393 canton Road
12th floor
Kowloon, Hong Kong
await OUR REF:

,léml 33“: YOUR REF:
‘ll-i'riE} TEL. NO.:

width"; Cable Address: AGFISH HONG KONG
Faxline No.: 3-3113731

Information Paper

 

Ivory Trade Control in Hong Kong

Introduction

 

Hong Kong is fully committed to the conservation of
endangered species, including the African elephant. We take
our obligations under the convention seriously. Its principal
elements are embodied in Hong Kong legislation which is strictly
enforced.

Background

 

2. World demand for ivory has led to continued decline
of the African elephant. It is the view of time Hong' Kong
Government that this situation must be reversed.

3. Trade in ivory reflects demand. Unless something
can be done to curb demand in the consuming countries, the trade
will continue. Making trade illegal will not stop it. It will
continue, underground and uncontrolled, outside the purview
of CITES.

4. In our View the problem requires a three pronged
attack:

first to discourage demand for ivory in the
consuming countries;

second to curb poaching and to manage elephant
populations in the range states;

third to firmly control and monitor trade in
ivory so that whilst demand remains high,
it can be satisfied from existing stocks
rather than Ina allowed t1) further deplete
the elephant population.

All replies must be addressed to Director of Agriculture & Fisheries
E$ﬁ%EWW%EEE

 




2

5. Hong' Kong :neither' consumes nor‘ produces ivory; IBut
we are a large ivory trading and carving centre and have a more
comprehensive system of control than, possibly" anywhere else.
This paper outlines this system.

The control system in Hong Kong

6. No ivory, either in worked or raw form, may be imported
into Hong Kong without a licence issued in advance by the
Agriculture and Fisheries Department, the CITES Management
Authority of Hong Kong. Licensing policy follows closely the
CITES provisions and the CITES "Ivory Trade Control Procedure".
Only ivory from CITES-approved source (with CITES Export Quota
or registered with CITES) may be imported.

7. On arrival, every shipment is physically inspected
by staff of the Agriculture and Fisheries Department in
conjunction with the Customs & Excise Department to ensure that
the number, weight and markimg of ivory tusks conform with the
CITES export permit. Irregularities will be investigated and
prosecution instituted if there is any evidence of an offence.
Conviction will result in heavy fines, forfeiture of the ivory
and imprisonment for up to 6 months.

8. Pending the outcome of the Conference of Parties to.

CITES, we imposed a ban on the import of raw ivory on 16 June
1989.

9. Meanwhile, to ehance our already stringent control

(M1 the ivory trade enui to further deter the illegal import of
ivory, the Hong Kong Government has recently, adopted the
following measures:

(a) all ivory stocks in.fknm;lKong must be identified and
registered. with the .Hong' Kong' Management .Authority;
a computer data base has been set up to monitor the
movement of all registered ivory;
all companies dealing in commercial quantities of
ivory will be required to take out possession licences;

the export cnf all commercial quantities of all forms
of ivory will require to be licensed in advance by
the Hong Kong Management Authority;

a Special Task Force has been set up in the Customs
and Excise Department. It works in close co-operation
with the Agriculture and Fisheries Department to
investigate and suppress any illegal ivory trade
through Hong Kong;

maximum fines for violating our endangered species
legislation have been increased 5-fold to HK$50,000
(about ‘US$6,400) to deter would—be offenders. This
is in addition 1x3 the mandatory forfeiture of.
consignments found to be illegal.

 




Ivory stocks in Hong Kong

 

10. Because of our control system, we know that there
are, at present, some 100 tonnes of whole tusks, 400 tonnes
of cut pieces and scraps, and 170 tonnes of worked ivory legally-
held :U1 Hong Kong. These represent legal imports accumulated
over more than ten years. A large proportion of the existing
stocks have been. imported from. E.C. .Member States and, Japan
with the approval of their respective governments. Claims that
Hong Kong traders have been stockpiling in anticipation of a
worldwide ban have no substance. Indeed, Hong IKong's annual
ivory import in the past three years have decreased to one third
of those in early l9803, and in the first 6 months of 1989 Hong
Kong has exported more ivory than it has imported.

Existing stocks should be traded

 

ll. The Hong Kong Government believes that the properly
controlled 'trading cﬁf existing' stocks of legally-acquired..and
legally-held ivory should be allowed to continue. To prevent
such trade would be most unlikely to lead to enhanced prospects
for the survival of the species. It would also be grossly unfair
to those who have acquired ivory in strict compliance with CITES
requirements, and would undermine the cmedibility of the
international convention.

12. A total and indiscriminate ban is a superficially
attractive solution only. It risks driving the trade
underground, creating illegal markets outside: the control of
CITES, and increasing the stakes for poaching.

Other considerations

 

13. Hong Kong has some 3,000 workers and traders who depend
on the trade for their livelihood. It is unfair to expect the
workers, who are mostly aged craftsmen, earning a living with
their life-long developed skill, to abruptly give up their
livelihood and the traders to lose all their investment in the
form of ivory stocks.

Conclusion

 

14. To sum up, Hong Kong genuinely supports the
conservation of all endangered species. As regards the African
elephant we are doing our best to ensure that, in those areas
under our control, no new ivory can enter existing stocks and
that only these stocks can be held or exported. We are of the
vieW'tjuM: no new ivory should be permitted to be traded unless
fully effective control measures can be agreed by the parties
to CITES. We believe that trading of the existing stocks of
legally-acquired and legally-held ivory should. be allowed to
continue.

Agriculture and Fisheries Department
(CITES Management Authority)
Hong Kong.

October 1989

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RACK K—SLIDE " 92
”KELLY—PI) l2506—CARDS—(4-6'78)——N72 .... .... .... .. I Q
I
r - x 7 f » .’ i ' f"?
» ‘iFh;eit«He‘in‘ora=ble-and: Mrs. Roger-L. Sfevens i ‘ .

 

ARTS SALUTE

honoﬁng
SENATOR CLAIBORNE ‘PELL

Cock’rail Buffel'
ion WednesdayI May |7+h
from 6:00‘1'0 8:00 pm.
al I686 34+h St. NW. ,
Washingfon. D.C. I

‘R.S.V.P. card enclosed ‘ _ Informal

. Senafor .Pell: A Champion of ’rhe Arfs and Humanifies

Claiborne Pelll who has served in +he Uniled S’ra’res Sena’re for +he pas}
l7 years. is na+iona|ly known for his pioneering role in eslablishing and
promo’ring Federal supporl' for +he ari's and hum‘ani’ries. From his firsl'
days in’rhe Senale, he has soughl ways +0 increase Federal assisfance +0
acliviﬁes which enhance +hequali’ry of our lives.

 

Cow

‘ He has am‘hored, a'or legrslahomcreai: ,_ geam5~taaf edu— _

       

 

 

‘7; w. , ‘ - 7v ‘ ,1,“ ‘1», 5259...; ;; '5; : ;v=,,=»--,.\,._r1A.-_,-;,-_cc,*;.~c.;«;_~... 4.1"-» ’safx.,'-‘,x::,,:5-1;;~._+ - - . ~ ‘~,_:i~1,_,¢;, we. “‘“r,é‘£f:,\, ,7.“ . Q,‘ 7 4v;ﬁ?;_;g:wa_ .c: s: , , 1
cafion and beheld {he laﬂs and humamhes, +he nahon's museums and," _ , . a , ‘: ». v _ ~ :-
in’rerna’rional cul’rural exhibifs. ‘ , . x _ ‘ ' ’ \‘

 

He is a member of ’rhe Senal'e Human Resources Commi’r’ree and
Chairman of ’rhe SubcommiH'ee on Educafion. Arls and ’rhe Humani’ries.
Never before have +he ari's achieved +he level of prominenceand
public aHen’rion in American life +ha+ +hey enjoy +oday. This is due in
grea'l par’r ’ro lhe vision. ded‘icaﬁon. and hard work of Senai'or Claiborne
Pell. +he aui'hor. of +he legisla’rion +ha+ creal'ed Jrhe Na’rional Endowmenls
for lhe ‘Ar’rs and for fhe Humani’ries. , '

 

 




 

RACK K—SLIDE 93 ’

‘2-,K*EL.LY-P.O‘. 12506~CARDS—-(4-6~78)-N72 _,-._.

CommiHee

A Chairmen: The Honorable and Mns. Roger L. Sfevens

Honorary Chairmen: The Vice Presidenf and Mrs. Walfer F. Mondale:

Mrs. Hugh D. Auchincloss

Mr. and Mrs. Smifh Bagley .

Mr. William Benneff. lll

Mrs. Livingsfon L. Biddle, Jr.

Mr. Theodore Bikel

Mr. and Mrs. An’rh-ony A. Bliss
iThe Hon. and Mrs. John Brademas

Mr. & Mrs. Ralph Ellison
Mr. Paul Engle '
The Hon. Myer Feldman
Mr. Tom Fichandler

. Ms. Zelda Fichandler

Mrs. Nancy M. Folger .
Mr. O'Neil Ford

 

 

Mrs. Mabel H. Brandon The Hon. Abe Forfas
‘ , Mr. Alberf Bush-Brown , 7 7 Mr. and Mrs. rf'hur W. Gardner
' ’ “ “7*1"MF§“L"”C‘éEifPT“CSrusr” ”TMWWTWTTTT’ ‘TWMFELW'ln'a Ginsburg

Miss Lucia Chase _ Mr. and "Mrs. MacKenzie Gordon

Mr. and Mrs. E. Taylor C'hewningl Jr. Mrs. Polk Guesf ‘

Manny & Rufhy Cohen Mr. Jack Golodner

*Ms. Peggy Cooper Kay Murphy Halle

'Mr. Kennefh M. CrOs‘by . '~Mr. Lawrence Halprin

:Ms. Agnes de M‘ille ‘ Dr. and Mns. O. B. Hardison

‘The Hon. Joseph Duffey ‘ Fafhﬁeyr Gilberf Hargllgie. O.B.

 

€ommiﬁee confinued
Mr. Jerome Robbins

 

 

 

Mr. and Mrs. Pafricik Hayes Mr. Rudolf Serkin
Mr. Charlfon Hesfon Mr. George C.Seybolf
Frankie Hewiff Ms. Jewell R. Shepperd
Dr. and Mrs. C. David Hinfon . Mrs. JoueH' Shous-e
The Hon. and Mrs. Townsend W. Hovopes Mr. Oliver Smifh
Mr. Richard H. Hunf Mr. lsaac Sfern »
Sam Jack Kaufman Mr. and Mrs. Georg-e C. Sfe-venis. Jr,
Mrs. Lee Kimche ‘ Lloyd and Nancy Symingfon ‘
Mr. and Mrs. Gilberf Kinney Mr. Billy Taylor 4
Mr. David Lloyd Kre-eger The Hon. Hobarf Taylor, Jr.
Mr. George London Mr. and Mrs. Maurice B. Tobin
Mr. Harry McPherson ' ' Mr. and Mrs. WynaniL D. VanderpoolI Jr
Mr. Charles K. McWhorfer Mr. Edward Villella ‘
Mr. Jimilu Maison . ~ Leland Webber
Mr. and Mrs. Gregory Peck ' \ Mr. Harry Weese
Mr. and Mrs. Laughlin Phillips Dr. Donald L. Weismann
Mr. Harold Prince ' Mr. Offo Wi’rfmann
Mr. Paul 5. Quinn The Hon. and Mrs. Sfanley Woodward
Mr. Thomas H. Quinn Mr. and Mrs. Herman Woulg '
Mrs. Carole Rader Jamie Wyefh
:l'he Hon. S. Dillon Ripley Mr. and Mrs. Mipogu Yamasaki
M ._ , _ w

 

a'ccepf wifh pleasure your invifafion fo honor Se-nafor Claiborne {Pell af a
cockfail recepfion on Wednesday. May l7fh af 6:00 pm. and enclose a
confribufion of , , for. 7 persons. payable fo The} .
Re—elecf Senafor Pell Co-mmiHee.

 

$|00.00 per person

$250.00 pafron

$500.00 sponsor
$|.00‘0.00 bene‘fac'l'or:

Cannof aHend buf enclose a confribufion»

of

A copy ofour revporf is filed 'wifh fhe Federal Elecfion Commission and is
available from fhe Federal Elec’rio-n Commission. Washing’ron. D.C. .

 

 

 

 

 

 

Federal law allows confribufons fo p-o-li’rical campaigns fo claim. a fax credif
nof fo exceed $25 per individual or $50 per couple filing ioinfly or a far;
deduction of up fo $l00 per individual or $2QQ per couple filing ioinfly.

The following info-rmafion is required by Federal law:

 

Name...” _ _,, ,., ,- - ' _Lﬁ

 

Address 9— -‘ ' .. . . y. ; ,. Zip.

 

 

Principal place of business". , . ; ‘ﬁ_.

 

 

 




By CHRISTINE STEVENS

Befriending Animals

Christine Stevens, Animal Welfare Institute, New York, gives a national
and international view of humane education and its relatedness to class-

room activities.
not diﬂicult to teach kindness to animals.

As THE CHILD EXPERIENCES THE KINDLY
emotions which can be brought out in
such simple ways as giving food to a
hungry animal or water to a thirsty one,
he naturally develops an attitude of mind
which is a basic need of civilized human
beings. The need for this gentle and
considerate point of view is greater today
than ever before in the history of the
world.

The abuse of strength and power by
any individual becomes more serious as
the numbers of human beings increase, as
scientiﬁc power increases and as the
natural world correspondingly shrinks.
It is essential that the children growing
up in the 1960’s be truly humane. They
can learn to become so through happy
experiences in befriending animals.

Many teachers have told me how much
they value the various humane educa-
tional materials supplied to them by ani-
mal protective organizations with which
I have worked. They point out that noth-
ing else is so effective in character de-
velopment and so much enjoyed by
children while they are learning.

This approach was initiated by George
T. Angell, founder of the American
Humane Education Society. He was
deeply impressed by the fact that none of
the inmates of a Boston prison had ever
owned a dog or other pet as a child. By
the same token cruelty to animals often

426

Since children have a natural interest in animals, it is

forms a prelude to crimes against human
beings; for example, Francis H. Bloeth,
who murdered three people and who had
previously shown a liking for gruesome
methods of killing cats. Clearly, it is of
great importance that no school activity
should ever give encouragement to the
development of callous or sadistic atti-
tudes.

Kindness to Animals
Around the World

Our country is a leader in humane
education, and recognition of its impor-
tance is reﬂected in the fact that twenty-
nine states have legislation requiring the
teaching of humane education in their
public schools. Others have followed our
lead and advance the teaching of humane
principles in different ways. In such
faraway countries as Japan and Tan-
ganyika, contests for the best paintings
and posters illustrating kindness to ani-
mals play an important part in the pro-
gram. A Christmas card published by
the Japan Animal Welfare Society and a
poster from the Tanganyika Branch of
the Royal Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals expreSs the spirit of
kindness and sympathy so well stated by
Dr. Albert Schweitzer: “We need a
boundless ethics that will include the
animals also.” It is in this spirit of

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




Reverence for Life that the Humane Edu-
cation Institute of Africa was recently
formed. Nearer home, in Canada, the
Kindness Club is ﬂourishing. Each
branch takes an animal name—raccoon,
beaver, chipmunk—but they stand for
kindness to all animals. The Kindness
Club was founded because of the demand
of the children of New Brunswick when
they learned how greatly animals need
such help. The information was gathered
in the course of an essay contest on the
protection of animals. The guide book

Frederic C. Matthaei,
president of

Matthaei Foundation
which last spring
built the Shelter of
the Humane Society
of Washtenaw County,
Michigan, with one

of the many

children who have
adopted an animal
from the “orphanage”

Esther Bubley
MAY 1962

for leaders now being published may
prove useful in the United States, too.
(See Atlantic Advocate, December 1961.)

The Field Rangers, an English chil-
dren’s club, is in contact with some ﬁfteen
thousand school children. With three
regular weekly classes, monthly outings,
summer camp, “Information Bureau”
library of animal books and monthly ﬁlm
showings, the group is very active. A
special feature is the Pets Corner run for
mentally retarded children in Fountain
Hospital. Club members make two eve-

ning attendances at the hospital each
week as well as Sunday mornings.

Classroom Activities

Humane education through club activ-
ities ties in well with humane teaching in
the classroom. Here are some notes from
a teacher who visits classrooms for the
San Francisco SPCA: “The children are
enthusiastic . . . Teachers say that the
children apply these kindly feelings to
each other . . . There are always a few
children who do not have pets. I never
urge them to beg their parents to get
them one, because there may be condi-
tions at home making it undesirable to
have one. Instead I suggest special proj-
ects: collecting pictures and stories of
animals from newspapers to put in scrap-
books or visiting the zoo, then going to
the library to borrow books about the
animals they are most interested in.
When a child has just a goldﬁsh I try to
make him feel fortunate, and point out
that even a ﬁsh can be a pet if it is treated
as one. One little girl told me about her
four-year-old goldﬁsh: ‘He is a real pet.
When I feed him I put the food on my
ﬁnger and put my ﬁnger on top of the
water and he comes up to eat.’ I stress
the Golden Rule . . . ‘Treat pets and all
other animals the way you would like to
be treated if you had been born a pet or
any other kind of animal.’ I printed it
in large letters on a piece of cardboard
on which I pasted colored pictures of
animals, and I usually have one child
volunteer to read it to the class, then I
ask the entire class to read it in unison.”

For the teacher who lacks special
knowledge, manuals, books, leaﬂets and
posters which are available free or for a
small sum can be helpful. First Aid and
Care of Small Animals1 (free to
teachers) provides expert information on
helping all sorts of small creatures in
distress.

428

Visit Animal Shelter

A visit to the local humane society
shelter can be very rewarding, and basic
facts about the care and handling of pets
can be illustrated. Young children are
delighted with an opportunity to hold a
puppy or kitten and deeply impressed
when shown exactly how to do this: sup-
porting the animal’s weight with one
hand while holding his front legs with the
other and resting him against the child’s
chest. Respect for the feelings of the
animals is readily learned as each child
shows proudly how comfortably he can
hold a friendly pup. The principles on
which humane societies and SPCA’s are
founded are brieﬂy outlined, and even
the youngest child readily grasps the wish
of each animal for a good home.

Another excellent followup is to have
some calm and friendly pet spend a
morning in the classroom. Discussion on
his needs and care can be extended to
different subjects. Painting and drawing
him and writing about him may be tied in
with reading or storytelling, depending
on the children’s ages.

Science and Humane Education

Science teaching goes hand in hand
with humane education in the study of
nature. A class visit to a park, farm or
woodland opens up great opportunities
for observing animals in their natural
surroundings and for developing the
careful and thorough observation that
every great scientist has demonstrated
and the respect and compassion for fellow
inhabitants of the earth that every truly
civilized human being must have.

Of paramount importance in science
teaching is the strict avoidance of any
activity which might cause distress to
animals either in or out of classroom.

1 Ernest P.l Walker, First Aid and Care of Small Animals
Animal Welfare Institute, P.O. Box 3492, Grand Central Station,

New York, N.Y. 10017 CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




 

A hummingbird gets a drink from an eye-dropper.

Some teachers have been persuaded to
starve small animals in the classroom to
demonstrate long-established facts about
nutrition. The gruesome symptoms of
these unfortunate captives are then ob-
served by the children who, it is assumed,
will thenceforward eat a balanced diet.
That they will have been hardened to the
sufferings of those weaker than they and
will have made a serious start toward the
stultiﬁcation of all compassionate feel-
ings for the defenseless is brushed aside
as unimportant. This is the antithesis of
genuine education; and when it is carried
to surgery, poisons, cancer implants and
other painful procedures on living ani-
mals, its effects on impressionable young
people are likely to go beyond callous-
ness to sadism. We cannot afford to
accept such teaching practices in a

civilized nation, and ﬁrst-rate science
teaching neither needs nor uses them.

Humane education can be correlated
with the arts as effectively as it can be
with social studies and science. Original
plays by children, in which they act the
parts or in which they use hand puppets
representing animals, can be a great suc-
cess both with the producers and the
viewers. A play about Saint Francis of
Assisi written by a superintendent of
schools offers possibilities for young
actors.

Children have a natural interest in
animals, and it is not difficult to develop
feelings of sympathy and desire to help
living creatures who are smaller and
more helpless than the children them-
selves.

Reprinted from CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

MAY

1962

ASSOCIATION FOR CHILDHOOD EDUCATION INTERNATIONAL
3615 Wisconsin Avenue Northwest
Washington 16, D. C.
Release'd through
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION UUA
25 Beacon Street, Boston 8, Mass.
Five Cents

 




Ernest P. Walker, the author of “Studying Our Fellow
Mammals,” is best known for his three-volume classic,
“Mammalsof the World,” published by the John Hop-
kins Press in 1964; but teachers throughout the country
know him for his “First Aid and Care of Small Animals,”
the very popular- manual he wrote for AWI publication,
now in its sixth printing.

“Studying Our Fellow Mammals,” which he considers
his most important book, is a synthesis of the Walker
philosophy with the close and accurate scientific observa-
tion for which he is noted among mammalogists.

Ernest Walker’s knowledge and understanding of
animals developed over long years of study and work with
them, from his farm boyhood, through the University
of Wyoming, the Bureau of Fisheries in Alaska, the US.
Biological Survey on which he worked on problems of
migratory bird protection, then as the first commissioner
of the Alaska Game Commission, head of the Federal
Game and Bird Reservations, and finally assistant director
of the Smithsonian Institution’s National Zoological Park.

In testimony before a Senate Committee this year, he
expressed the broad-minded attitude toward mammals in
general which characterizes all his work. “Mammals,
including people,” he wrote, “are built essentially the
same, their main differences being in size and proportion

Please send me (

check

My money order for $ .................... IS enclosed.

?I@%
Pgiiﬂ
A%%

as“
w"

\\
\\\\\\\\\\\\
\\\\

Ernest P. Walker

of the parts to perform the function of helping the spe-
cies survive. Of course, there is great difference in size
between tiny shrews and big whales, and their food and
habits are radically different. In spite of the differences
between the great number of species, they obviously have
the same sensations of pain, hunger, thirst, taste, hearing,
etc. For some, their senses, such as sight, hearing, and
smelling, are far more acute than ours.”

“Studying Our Fellow Mammals” contains 172 pages
with 152 illustrations. Chapters include: Conservation,
Behavior, Intelligence, Form: Anatomy and Physiology,
Ancestry, Care of Captive Animals, Photographing Ani-
mals, Classification, and Animal Distribution.

Price : $1.00 each.

We are able, because of generous gifts for this purpose,
to offer single copies of this manual free of charge to
teachers and librarians. (Unfortunately, we cannot in—
clude student teachers or students in this offer.) Addi-
tional copies to teachers, schools, or libraries: $1.00 each.

Persons who wish to order copies of “Studying Our
Fellow Mammals” may do so by filling out the blank
below and mailing it to the Animal Welfare Institute,
P. O. Box 3492, Grand Central Station, New York,

N. Y., 10017.

) copies of “Studying Our Fellow Mammals.”

 

NAME (Please print)

 

ADDRESS

 

For teachers and librarians only:

Please send me one free copy of “Studying Our Fellow Mammals.”

teacher

 

at

I am a . -
librarian (NAME or SCHOOL 0R LIBRARY)

(GRADES)

 

(ADDRESS)

(ZIP CODE)

 

Please send book to

(NAME —— PLEASE PRINT)

 

(ADDRESS)

 

(ZIP CODE)

 




THE AFRICAN 3/ ELE-FUND

PRACTICAL ELEPHANT CONSERVATION

The African Ele-Fund aims to improve the protection of elephants and their habitat
wherever they are threatened, and to raise public awareness throughout the world, of
the plight of the largest land animal on earth.

Elephant populations are declining in virtually all of Africa: every year East Africa
loses 8.1%, Central and west Africa loses 17.8% and parts of southern Africa are
losing 8.2%; only in the southern African countries where poaching is under control,
is there a slight increase of 0.7% per annum, (figures from data compiled by Dr. Iain
Douglas-Hamilton for UNEP in. Nairobi). Surveys shOW' that elephant numbers are
declining more slowly in protected areas — National Parks, Reserves, etc. — than
elsewhere, but that protection MUST be improved if the downward trend is to be halted.

The major cause of' the decline in. elephant 'numbers is the illegal ivory trade.
Poachers are often better equipped, better armed and better paid than the park guards
and rangers who try to enforce the law. Anti—poacher work is frequently hampered by
the lack of simple equipment - sometimes just a spare part for a vehicle, or boots and
waterproof clothing for foot patrols. The African Ele-Fund is appealing for donations
and bequests to help even up the odds in favor of the elephants. Every penny and
every cent given will be spent in the field; the Ele-Fund is organized by volunteers
and administered at no cost by the International Wildlife Coalition (IWC) in the USA
and Canada, by IWC/Care for the Wild in Britain and by the Eastern African Wildlife
Society in Kenya. The Fauna and Flora Preservation Society (UK and USA) has also
agreed to accept donations earmarked for the Ele-Fund, as has WWF-International in
Switzerland.

ELE-FUND—RAISING

Fund—raising is centered around a series of Park Profiles, drawn up by scientists and
conservationists working in the field. Problem areas are thus pinpointed and lists of
urgent needs prepared and costed for each park. Individuals, schools and societies
will focus their fund-raising on certain items of equipment or sums needed to cover
vital work. For example, the Mount Elgon National Park in Kenya needs a minimum of
£3,500 (US $6,020) for vehicle repairs, and £15,000 (US $25,800) per year to cover the
costs of extra anti-poacher patrols. Without this 'helpg the ‘unique salt-mining
elephants will be wiped out by the current spate of ivory poaching.

Kindly send SASE (self-addressed stamped envelope) with your donation to an address
below if you wish to receive a list of Ele-Fund raising ideas:

IWC/Care for the Wild, 26 North Street, Horsham, West Sussex, RH12 lBN, U.K.
IWC USA, 1807 H Street NW, Washington D.C. 20006, U.S.A.

IWC Canada, 542 Mount Pleasant Road, Suite No. 104, Toronto, Ontario MAS 2 M1 Canada.
East African Wildlife Society, P.0. Box 20110, Nairobi, Kenya.

Please make cheques, postal orders, or money orders payable to the African Ele-Fund.

Co-ordinator: Ian Redmond, 60 Seymour Avenue, Bristol BS7 9HN, ENGLAND;
Telephone (0272) 46489.

Co-ordinator: Hezy Shoshani, Department of Biological Sciences, Wayne State
University, Detroit, MI 48202, USA; Telephone (313) 577-2865.

 




 

WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY .

COLLEGE or um“; ans W. acme“ «202
“SA

ovum-ma or was. some“ Elephant Intern: M

(313) 577—2865
540-3947

,lour membership in the Elephant Interest Group iEIBl and your support oi our activities during the past year n.v» ~een very much
appreciated. Ne have been gratified to read letters and receive enthusiastic comments iron mane of you on the last ' s e of Elephant
{Volume 2. Number 2}. in particular the article on ”Jumbo.“ lnspite oi the long delays in getting it out. your posi“v response to its
contents has confirmed our belief that it was worth the eifort to do the job with the highest standards possible.

he are not resting on our laurels however; we began to work on the next issue as soon as the last one was in the mail. It is our
plan to complete Volume 2. Number 3, as a shorter edition, within the year since we wish to commemorate the iutn anniversary of the E15
{see Tentative Contents at the back of this letter). At this date. we have 3/4 of the Contributed articles on our new computer system.
as well as nearly 100 references iron the 1980’s entered in the Ele hant Bibliogra hy. Spurred on by rapidly advancing technology. we
are entering all our files into a computer. The format of Elephan wi be a: it has been for Volume 2 but we now have more flexibility
in handling our material. Even this letter has been compiled on our computer. Other news items oi interest are:

Dear Elephant Readers.

New members:_ Since December 198B. EIB has added 42 new members from 7 countries, an increase oi approximately 102. It is noted that
many of these 4: new members are libraries and institutions.

£16 at the American Society of Mammalogists (ASH): Hezy represented EIB at the 67th annual heating oi the 58h in Albuquerque. New
device in June 1987."Ne had a table andfshowed a videotape on elephants {including a short clip oi "Ahmed“ alive in harsabit. henval.

Seventh Annual Elephant Workshop: Was held at the Calgary Zoo (P.U. Box 3036. Station_Bl} Calgary, Alberta. Canada iTEM 4R8). 25-27
September. 19Bb. The Proceedings of this workshop have just been published (price: Us $1u.uu. postage included}.

Eighth Annual Elephant Workshop: Sandra attended the 8th Annual Elephant Workshop idENl in Greensboro..dorth Carolina. November
11-14 1987. {Sandra also served on the Steering Committee for this organization.) New members have been recruited at these meetings
and old acquaintances have been renewed.‘ lhe ninth AEN will be held in November at barine Noridlhlrica Ugh. Vallejo,.Cali+ornia.

Elephant House at the Detroit 200: it has been in the process of renovation {or about one year and is due to be completed in several
months. The Zoo currently holds two female Asian elephants. "Ruth“ and "hita" (39 and 29 years old, respectively}.

'Iki' the elephant: At Wayne State University EIB is undertaking a labor of love: the reconstruction of the_skeleton oi “iki“, the
Ringling Brothers and Barnum a Bailey Circus elephant which we dissected in July 1980 (see Elepnagt dill:3'?33. lor display in the
Science Library at Hayne State University. The project. begun in January 1987. is part of a course in “Huseum Techniques" for
undergraduates. graduates and visiting students.

Shelton Mastodon Site (5M3): 'The filth excavation season at the SMS (Brandon Township. Oakland County. Michigan) was completed this
year. h commemorative plaque was placed on a large rock on elevated ground. Results o+ our findings will be given elsewhere.

ctures on “Elephants

s in 35 cities.
eaturing Ian’s work is
i the National Zoo.

Elephants and Gorillas lecture tour:- Ian Redmond. a British wildlile biologist and photographer. delivered
Underground" and "Mountain Gorillas" in the USA and Canada from harch to June 1987. The tour included 42 lectu
discussions and media interviews. By all standards Ian’s contribution was a success._ A 24-page color booklet
available for US $ELOO (postage includedl from the E16 office or from Thomas Gauss. Smithsonian-eudubon-Friends
F.B. Box 3B4. Annandale. Virginia 22003 USA. .

5 .-.l

”'0‘ [[1 IL!

I

J

.
i

Mount Elgon elephants in eril: Elephant numbers are declining throughout airica; a case in point is the elephant population at

2 haunt Elgon National Park in NP}, henya. A recent visit by Ian Redmond to MEN? revealed that poachers ambush the_elepnants as they are
. about to enter the caves to excavate for salt and.till them with automatic rifles andlor by any other means. is the best of our _
lknowledge. the subterranean “salt mining“ behavior of the MENF elephants is unprecedented and it has been dubbed "one o: the wonders or
:the natural world”. Eliorts are being made to raise funds to save this exceptional and unique relict elephant populating and a research
.proposal for field work is being written by I. Redmond and J. Shoshani. Various organizations have agreed to open a 10ul*pccbunt so
ithat every penny andfor cent donated goes into the field. Donations (tax-deductible) can as made payable to the HFBICAN ccE~FUNB and
,sent to any oi the organizations listed in the enclosed information sheet. Thank vou very much.

Sym osium on Evolutionary Biology of the Proboscidea: A symposium on the aleoecolog‘ and evolution oi the Proboscidea (co-organized
by 3. bhoshani and P. lassyl will take place during the Fifth International T eriologica Longress._at the and oi the upmmer 1989. in
Roma. ltaly. We plan to publish an edited version of the proceedings. possibly as Volume III to usborn s Proboscidea.

Publishing Ele hant requires funding and EIG has established a reasonable base through membership lees. donations and fundraising
in the form of sa as 0 E16 materials. Many oi our readers spontaneously sent dues and contributions upon receipt of Volume 2. Number
2. Nonetheless. it is necessary for us to notify all members chat dues are payable at this time. We have_determined that it will
benefit the organisation to levy US $12.00 per year to insure continued quality in publication and to BFDVIGE ade uate postal coverage
in light of problems incurred in bulk mailing the last issue. Because a large number of members has already sent ees Since December
1986 or has joined in i987. we are singling out individuals and institutions by marking their letters. Those of you who lind f red dot
sticker on the upper right hand corner of this letter are in arrears on payment 0+ dues, according to our records 0? the past three
sears. in order to continue receiving Elephant. you must respond immediately to this letter. Kindly complete and return the form at
the bottom oi this letter at your earliest convenience. All others on the mailing list will receive Elephant automatically.

be loot forward to hearing from you.

Conscientiously yours,

35.33L/tt Editor associate 'ditor
Enclosures

 




Tentative Contents for W Volume 2, Number 3

Cover - Ahmed. See explanations opposite

* Ease
A note from the editors ............ ........ . ................ ...... .. ...... .......... 1

Contributed articles/reports.

Tenth Anniversary of the Elephant Interest Group........ .. ..........Kenneth C. Wylie 3
“Ahmed", the logo of the Elephant Interest Group:

Encounters in Marsabit and notes on his model

and skeleton .............................. ..... .Jeheskel Shoshani and John J. Walcek

On mounting of skeleton of an Asian elephant, Elem: mazimu;
indigo: (Linnaeus, 1758) ........................... ..C J. Savanurmath and C. G. Dhaduti

Fetuses of African elephants (W M)

in photographs .......................... . ..... .Martin S. Fischer and Uschi Trautmann
Mount Elgon’s elephants are in peril...... ........ Ian M. Redmond and Jeheskel Shoshani
Chemical composition of the temporal gland secretion

of an Asian elephant (Elm magimus). ..... P.S. Easa

Captive elephant population in North America: .
1987 Update IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I ........ O ........... IIIOIOI ..... CIIIIIIIIICIOOIIIIOIIOI sandra L. ShOShani

Reviews
”Anatomy and histology of the Indian elephant"
by D. Mariappaill lllllllll I IIIIIIII ...... IIIIIIIIIII O ...... I. IIIIIIIIII 0......llOI......I.IOOOOIOOIIOOIIII..IIIOII

Elephant notes and news (including ERRATA)

Recent correspondence ..... .. ...... ........ ... ... ..
Financial report and acknowledgments. ... ...... .. ....
Information from the Elephant Interest Group Questionnaires........................,..........
Elephant Interest Group- Membership List ........ ... ... .... ... ... ..

Elephant Bibliography (1980 - Present, plus other, perhaps)......................................
Elephant Interest Group Questionnaire... .......
Membership and Order Form ............. . ....... ....... .....

* = Pages are very rough estimates, a total of about 120 pages

 




 

t” 71%» E3 ,9

Cincinnati Incinerator Sparks Joint Ohio/EDF Action

OPIC learned of these bills through EIE and is working with EDF to enact them. In
its regular canvassing, OPIC told Cincinnatians about the bills and has made sure that

hrough EDF’s Environmental In-
formation Exchange (EIE), EDF
is working with state environ-
mental groups in Connecticut,
Illinois, Ohio, Michigan, and Wisconsin
to promote environmentally sound man-
agement of municipal solid waste. A re-
cent EIE effort in Cincinnati, involving a
proposed “mass burn” incinerator, vivid-
ly demonstrates how EIE works jointly
with state-level environmental groups to
solve urgent state and national problems.

The Ohio Public Interest Campaign
(OPIC), a member of the EIE network,
invited EDF to help in Ohio. EDF staff
attorneys Kathie Stein and Michael Herz
and staff scientist Dr. Richard Denison
went to Cincinnati for two days to meet
with citizens groups, government officials,
and the media to discuss problems with
and alternatives to the incinerator plan
and its “burn everything” approach.

Mass burn technology poses a number
of concerns. The inclusion of noncombus-
tible materials such as cans and bottles
in incinerated waste can compromise the
safety and efficiency of the entire process.
Other products such as batteries, paint,
and tires contribute toxic metals to trash
—and to incinerator ash—and clearly
should not be burned.

Also, in part because Cincinnati is not
yet operating or even planning any large-
scale recycling or waste reduction pro-
grams, EDF concluded that the proposed
incinerator is oversized. Indeed, it would
undermine efforts to launch such pro-
grams because Cincinnati would be re-
quired to send all its waste to the
incinerator. EDF urged Cincinnati instead
to reassess the need for the facility and
begin long-term planning for safe man-
agement of its solid waste.

Concerns Also Reach Washington

This EIE action may also have impact in
Congress, where Cincinnati Representa-
tive Thomas A. Luken is an important
figure in the progress of pending legis-
lation to control the hazards of ash and
air emissions from municipal incinerators.
EDF’s work on toxic ash has been reported
in recent EDF LETTERS.

In response to EDF’s concerns, Rep.
James J. F lorio introduced bills requiring
the Environmental Protection Agency to
specify stringent tests and treatment stan-
dards for ash that is hazardous to human
health and the environment, impose tech-
nology-based controls on toxic incinerator
emissions, and compel cities to adopt
enforceable solid waste management plans
before they can issue an incinerator
permit. Similar legislation has been
introduced in the Senate.

 

Rep. Luken, who chairs the
House subcommittee to which
the ash bill was referred, knows
they have strong local support.
OPIC ’s efforts should convince
Rep. Luken to hold prompt
hearings.
EDF MEMBER ACTION ALERT

EDF urges members to ask
Representatives to support HR.
2516 and 2517 and ask Senators
to support the Sen. Env.
Committee/Burdick Bill.

Ohio Public Interest Campaign

Donald A. Newman, a Cincinnati busmessman whose
property borders site of proposed incinerator, with Roxanne
Qualls of Ohio Public Interest Campaign, and EDF staff
Michael Herz, Dr. Richard Denisgni and Kathie Stein.

1’ mar-:wat ‘

I I eff ,é‘
Nations Debate Plight onglepn s

epresentatives of 86 na-

tions met for two weeks

in Ottawa, Canada, re-

cently to address threats
to rare species involved in inter-
national trade. The forum was
the sixth biennial meeting of
CITES, the Convention on Inter-
national Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora, the only global treaty
governing commercial trade in
wild plants and animals.

EDF participated in the meet-
ing, as it has in past CITES meetings, as
a non-governmental observer, a status
that offers uncommon opportunities to
take an active part in CITES deliberations.

Although CITES has reduced the
menace of trade to many wild species,
that threat continues for many others.
Among these is the African elephant, and
much of the Ottawa meeting was devoted
to the plight of the elephant and to
finding ways to stem its alarming decline.
EDF Wildlife Program Chairman Michael
J. Bean, who represented EDF at the
meeting, took part in the special working
group on the elephant problem and helped
draft resolutions on other topics.

A report from the African Elephant
and Rhino Specialist Group of the Inter-
national Union for the Conservation of
Nature presented a grim picture. The
estimated African elephant population
has been reduced from over 1.2 million in
1981 to only 750,000 in 1987. The decline
has been even more dramatic in East
Africa, with estimated populations down
by more than half in this short time in
Tanzania, Somalia, and Sudan.

Halting Illegal Trade in Ivory

Habitat loss has reduced elephants in
some areas, but the major problem is

 

Rick Weyerhaeuser forVWVHVF-US

illegal ivory trading. CITES allows some
raw ivory exports from individual African
nations under a two-year-old quota sys-
tem. Unfortunately, far more ivory is
currently traded illegally than the amount
traded legally under the quota system.

The primary offenders appear to be
Burundi, an African nation with no
remaining elephants of its own, and the
United Arab Emirates, which recently
became the first nation to announce its
intention to withdraw from CITES. In
an unusually blunt action, CITES
delegates passed a resolution calling for
diplomatic, political, and economic
sanctions to pressure these two nations
into cooperating with elephant con-
servation efforts. They also adopted
other, less dramatic measures designed
to make the CITES ivory quota system
more effective.

Among seVeral other important actions
taken was a ban on further international _
commercial trade in the palm cockatoo
and the hyacinth and military macaws,
three large parrots involved in the pet
trade. Proposals by France and Indonesia
to reopen global trade in certain species
of sea turtles were rejected, but trade
restrictions on once-endangered croco-
dilians were relaxed.

 

 




 

One of EDF’s special people for more than 20 years is Trustee Arthur P. Cooley, an EDF founder and the chairman of the EDF
Board of Trustees from 1972 to 1975. This profile was written for EDF LETTER by Myra Gelband, a Senior Editor at Sports Illustrated.

sk anyone who knows Art Cooley

to describe him and, inevitably,

enthusiastic is the first word

you’ll hear. Followed quickly by
likeable, passionate, analytical, informed,
committed, organized and reasonable.
That’s a big part of why Cooley and EDF
have combined forces so successfully
over the past 20 years.

The gregarious Cooley cut his envi-
ronmental teeth as chairman of the Brook-
haven Town Natural Resources Com-
mittee, a group of students, teachers,
conservation officers, baymen, scientists,
and lawyers—concerned citizens all.
Begun in 1965 in an adult education
marine biology course Art was teaching
at Bellport (N .Y.) High School, BTNRC
took on local conservation issues and
challenged, and ultimately beat, the Army
Corp of Engineers on a harbor dredging
issue. “We were so naive,” he recalls.
“Can you imagine taking on the Corps
with petitions? But that’s what we did.”

That fight was just a warmup, how-
ever, as the group next took on the
Suffolk County Mosquito Control Com-
mission in a class action suit to stop the
spraying of DDT. Scientific expertise

 

“He’s everyone’s idea of
what a teacher should be.”

 

was provided by BTNRC members Dennis
Puleston, Charles Wurster, George
Woodwell, the late Robert Smolker, and
Cooley, the five who became the scientific
core of EDF at its beginning.

“Back then, we didn’t have the temer-
ity to think 20 years ahead,” he recalls.
“We were trying to get DDT banned and
really didn’t think beyond that. But the
formation of EDF changed things. People
began coming to us with cases and we
saw that there could be a big agenda. But
we had to narrow our focus to be effective.
There was a lot of arguing then, a lot of
vigorous discussion.”

Cooley, responsible for running the
board’s meetings for the first eight years,
helped bring consensus. His long experi-
ence at keeping order in a classroom
probably helped as much as his ready
smile and quick humor.

The National Environmental Policy
Act in 1970 gave organizations like EDF
the right to challenge government
decisions and ultimately to help for-
mulate policy. “Now we have people like
Michael Bean helping to draft im-

 

Art Cooley, center, with fellow EDF founders
Dr. Charles F. Wurster (l) and Dennis
Puleston, revisit a Long Island wetland area
where the osprey ’s decline 20 years ago led to
E DF ’3 creation in the long battle to halt DDT
use. The osprey has made a dramatic recovery
since the DDT ban won by EDF in 1972.

provements in the Endangered Species
Act.”

Wildlife preservation is one of C00-
ley’s strong personal interests, along
with exploring the tools for recycling
resources. He pursues these and other
issues in the classroom with as much
enthusiasm—there’s that word again—
as he devotes to EDF.

“I really enjoy nature, and I like to be
with people who share that. I would
always rather go with someone who
appreciates nature than go alone,” says
Cooley, whose early interest in birds led
him to study natural history. “One thing
I like about EDF is that it’s about the
things I care about most—the human
relationship with nature.”

Art began birding as a boy in Quogue,
N.Y., on Long Island’s south shore, with
a neighbor and still close friend, Fifi
Trowbridge. “I was 9 when she helped
me identify my first bird, a white-throated
sparrow.” He went to Cornell, set on
being a conservation officer, but changed
his mind. “Teaching physics at Ithaca
High School, I found that I liked the kids
and the independence I felt in the class-
room.” With a BS. and MS. in biology,
he looked for a temporary teaching job
before entering the Army and landed at
Bellport High School, where he has been,
with a couple of interruptions, since

‘+. Charles Erickson

1956. In 1962, he was a Fulbright ex-
change teacher in Dundee, Scotland, and
spent 1968-9 at Harvard on a National
Science Foundation fellowship.

“A few weeks after starting at Bellport,
I met Dennis Puleston,” he recalls. “We
began taking students out on field trips,
birding, doing the things I really liked.”

And things the students liked, as well.
“Art has a sense of wonder about every-
thing,” says Joe Beitel, a former student
who is now Assistant Horticultural
Scientist and Curator of Plant Records
at the New York Botanical Garden. “He
can still marvel over a spider web on a
misty morning down at the banding
nets. He’s everyone’s idea of what a
teacher should be.”

Cooley has received many honors for
excellence in teaching—awards and cita-
tions he is reluctant to discuss. But he
will talk about SEQ, Students for Envi-
ronmental Quality, of Bellport H.S.,
which he founded in 1971. Once a year,
SEQ travels to Albany to lobby state
legislators on selected issues. Art credits
SEQ with helping to pass New York’s
bottle bill and giving harbor seals state
endangered species protection, but he

 

“EDF is a legacy all of us
can be proud of.”

 

 

minimizes his own role. “The students
decide what they’re going to tackle. I just
guide them. They’re a pretty amazing
group.”

He’s just as pleased with other courses
he has introduced into the school’s cur-
riculum, including ornithology and gar-
dening and wild foods. And he’s proud
that 85% to 90% of the students enroll in a
science course every year.

Cooley counts himself lucky to have
been personally a part of EDF for all
these years. “But what is important is
that we created an institution that has
become a responsible advocate for the
environment. It is an enduring institution
that will outlive individuals and remain
an effective force for‘the only world we
have to live in. So while it was created
out of concern for the osprey, in its
maturity it is speaking out on national
and international issues.

“EDF is a legacy that all of us within
it can be rightly proud of,” he concludes.
Funny, how Art Cooley ended up as a
conservation officer, after all . . . but one
of global influence.

 

 




Durban (South Africa) Sunday Tribune DURBAN, APRILZZ, 1934

Mystery of the 10 000 slaughtered elephants

SA’s part in

 

 

 

 

 

 

By Graham Ferreira j

MILLIONS of rands worth of ivory, one of the
world’s most valuable and carefully con-
trolled, commodities, is being smuggled
through a South African pipeline.

This .is revealed by massive discrepancies be-
tween import and export figures, accounting for
the tusks from some 10 000 elephants.

A Sunday Tribune investigation has shown that a
South African connection is making millions of rands
movxng wary of “questionable origin” on to the world
market. Conservationists believe the huge quantities
being exported from South Africa —- nearly a hundred
tons in the past two years — could be the notoritous
“Savrmbi ivory”. '

Rebel Unita leader Jonas Savimbi has been con-
demned by conservationists world-wide for the whole-
sale slaughter of elephants in Angola.

' They believe the ivory is being smuggled illegally
into South Africa where it is “laundered” with legal
documentation and then exported.

 

scandal

War finance

Dr Savimbi has often said ivory helped finance his
war against the Angolan Government.

The Tribune’s investigation has shown:
0 Ten times as much ivory has been exported from
South Africa as has been officially imported over the
past two years. These figures are reflected in trade
statistics.
0 The balance could not have been made up of legal
ivory from inside South Africa because the only legal
source is ivory from elephants culled in the Kruger
National Park. Little, if any, Kruger ivory was export-
ed during the period.
0 South Africa is handling nearly an eighth of all the
ivory exported from Africa -— far in excess of the
proportionate numbers of elephants in the region.

. O The “Savimbi’s ivory” has not come to light legally

on any of the usual world markets.

In terms of an international convention (CITES) to
which South Africa is a signatory, ivory leaving or
entering member countries must carry detailed docu-
mentation.

Hr Clive Walker, director of the Endangered Wild-
life Trust and an ex " on the ivory trade, said he
would like to know w re the extrajivory was coming
from. .

“It can’t be from Botswana because no hunting is

 

allowed there.

“Likewise, it can’t be
from South West Africa
—— and even poaching
there has been under con-
trol for the past two
years. .

“Nor can it be coming
from Zimbabwe, because
we know where that
ivory goes and it is not
exported through South
Africa. _

“The evidence suggests
the ivory is coming from
Angola. If this is so,
somebody is going to
have to do some explain-

“Conservationists do
not have a clear picture
of how many elephants
are left in Angola, or how
many have been killed in
the bush war.” k

0 ‘tion spo esman
on egmnmental affairs
Roger Hulley said the
Tribune had revealed
some disturbing facts
and that he would table
questions in Parliament.

 

The Tribune estab-
lished that most of the
legal ivory in South Afri-
cs was bought by two
manufacturing firms to
be worked into trinkets
sold locally and overseas.

The subject of this in-
vestigation is unworked
ivory -— for centuries a
way of moving money
from place to olace.

 

A famous tusker

Shingwedzi, one of the magniﬁcent
large tuskers of the Kruger National
Park, was a legend in his lifetime. He
was named after the Shingwedzi River,
where he spent much of his time until he
died in 1981, aged 56 years. All the
exceptional bull elephants in the north-

east Kruger are now ﬁtted with radio-
collars so that if they move into areas
along the Mozambique border. where
poaching is a danger, they can be driven
to safer areas.

 




 

Savim

,_   , . hand in these
““““ . _ S 6 al ed

(Namibia) Observer

April 1984

i, have you

 

 

 

 

STAFF REPORTER

Perhaps the time is over-
due for the business
Frama Inter-Trading of
Johannesburg, to make a
statement and to clear the
air.

There arrived at Groot-
fontein hundreds of tons
of super teak, the trunks
so heavy and so aged,
that they are not from
South West Africa, and
if they are, the time has
come for the multi-gov-
ernment system to see to
it that local consumers
have ﬁrst option of that
teak.

The timber comes from
somewhere. All inquiries
led to nothing, but the
piles of wood have sudd-
enly become smaller and
smaller at the Grootfon-
tein railhead, until they
have virtually disapp-
eared.

Now it has been discov-
ered that they are. carted

to South Africa in contain-

erised trucks. .
What is going on? If it

is a South_West African
asset, an immediate stop
must be put to it. Why
must South West African
builders and carpentry
shops .import wood at
backbreaking prices from
South Africa, if the
Territory has such suppl-
ies of its own? If the teak
comes from Angola,
something must be done
because the Lu'anda
Government had given no
one a concession - and
that we have on record -
to take such an asset
from its soil. .

If this trade is not prop-
erly explained by a state-
ment, the Observer
pledges that it will discov-

’er the full picture of what

is going on. i

There are some ugly
rumours attached to that
trade across the bridge
at Bagani - some of them
so ugly that only the
fate of being incarerated
in a cell of the Windhoek
Prison stops us from
telling the public what
we know.

 




(continued)

McMeekin observed that "few Americans realize that much of
the ivory they buy here and abroad comes from poached animals.
And most merchants do not understand that the sale of ivory

products threatens the existence of Africa's elephantsﬂ'

During its "Year of the Elephant" campaign, the African
Wildlife Foundation will:
*ask the 0.8. consumer to forego buying ivory until the
poaching can be controlled.
*initiate a public information campaign in newspapers,
magazines, and on radio stations across the country.
*conduct a major mailing campaign to educate the American
public about the plight of the elephant.
*urge merchants and distributors to temporarily withhold
merchandise made of ivory.
*seek cooperation and endorsement for the conservation of
Africa's elephants by influential citizens and organizations.
*serve as a clearing house of information on the status of
the African elephant population.
*work with the African governments to improve their
antipoaching efforts and stop the smuggling of illegal ivory.
*search for a method by which legal ivory can be reliably
identified by merchants and consumers.
.The African Wildlife Foundation is an independent, non-
profit 50lun(3) organization devoted to saving Africa's natural

resources. AWF is headquartered in Washington, D.C., and
maintains a fully staffed field office in Nairobi, Kenya.

# ##

FACT SHEET: ELEPHANTS & THE IVORY TRADE

Elephants are being killed for their ivory in record
numbers.

The illegal ivory trade's current offtake of the
elephant population is causing a population crash
among elephants.

the total elephant population of Africa was
Today under 750,000 remain.

In 1979,
estimated at 1,300,000.

The volume of world trade in ivory from 1980 to 1985 was
800 tons each year.

The amount of illegal ivory circulating in the world
market h;estimatedlnrsomeexpertstolxaover80%.

To meet the demand for 800 tons of ivory, some 70,000
elephants must be killed. That number includes only
the animals with tusks. Thousands of calves also die
due to the loss of their mothers, bringing the esti—
mated total up to 80,000 elephants each year.

In 1982, the average tusk on the market weighed 21.3
pounds. Today, the average weight is 13 pounds, the
size more common among adult female and young male
elephants. As the animals with the largest tusks are
being killed off, poachers are turning to younger
animals with smaller tusks.

The world trade in unworked ivory amounts to nearly $50
million per year. Conservative estimates set the
wholesale market of worked ivory at $500 million
annually.

Since the 1960's, the price of ivory has risen dramati-
cally from approximately $2.45 per pound ($5.39 per
kilo), to as much as $68 per pound ($150 per kilo)
today.

The United States imports one-third of the international
trade in carved ivory.

(LS. imports in jewelry alone (some 7.21nillion pieces)
are valued at $11.8 million annually.

* At current levels, America's consumption accounts for the

deaths of nearly 27,000 elephants each year.

 




750,000 remain. Africaws elephants cannot possibly withstand a

continuation of the current level of offtake. Despite heroic

 

efforts by some African governments, the poaching continues.

AFRICAN WILDLIFE FOUNDATION

_h“ *“ 1N7MmmmmmmAwmeNwwwymmmﬂm2m%5 In Africa: ivory is a precious commOditY° At current
Telephone: (202) 265-8394

prices, a single pair of elephant tusks can eclipse the annual

EMBARGOED FOR RELEASE UNTIL: CONTACTS:
Wednesday, May 11, 1988 Maria Rodriguez (202) 331-4323 salary of all but those at the top of the economic scale. The
10:00 am, EST Diana McMeekin (202) 265—8393

illegal ivory trade benefits only a very few individuals;.it does

I ' a little to improve the condition of the average citizen in Africa.
POACHING THREATENS AFRICA'S_ELEPHANIS

5 .f _
Americans Urged to StOP BUYf“9W*Vg}Y Standing if] NancyR; yard (Nancy is the Zoo's re81dent

African elephant), Diana McMeekin, Vice President of the African
Washington, D.C. —- To stop the illegal slaughter of African

Wildlife Foundation said, "We are asking Americans to voluntarily
elephants and prevent their possible extinction, the African

forego buying ivory until the poaching can be controlled. We
Wildlife Foundation (AWF) today launched a major campaign to

will also ask jewelry distributors and major merchants to shelve
curtail the purchase of ivory by the American public.

their ivory products for the duration."
At a news conference at the Smithsonian's National

The "Year of the Elephant" campaign is the maiden project
Zoological Park, AWF kicked off its "Year of the Elephant"

for AWF's Gloria and Jimmy Stewart Conservation Fund. Frequent
campaign and released a report linking the demise of Africa's

visitors to Africa, Stewart and his wife have "noticed that there
elephant population to the illegal ivory trade.

just aren't as many elephants as there used to be. Poachers are
According to the African Wildlife Foundation's report, some

killing them off for their ivory tusksJ'
experts say that over 80% of the ivory on the world market comes

AWF Senior Associate Cynthia Moss, author of the recently—
from illegally killed elephants. Americans consume one third of

released Elephant Memories: Thirteen Years in the Life of an

 

the world's nearly $500 million market in carved ivory products.
Elephant Eamily, said, "Nearly half the African elephant
Some 70,000 elephants are killed to meet the worldwide ________

population has already been lost. It is not the numbers alone
demand for ivory each year. That number includes only the

that are depressing. Poachers systematically take the animals
elephants with tusks -— thousands of calves also die because of

with the largest tusks H. the males and the older matriarchs.
the loss of their mothers, bringing the estimated total up to at

My work in Amboseli (KenyaLn. indicates that a population
least 80,000 elephants each year. In 1979, the total elephant

consisting of only young animals under constant stress cannot
population of Africa was estimated at 1,300,000. Today under

. ll
reproduce and raise calves at anywhere near an average rate.
(over)

 




 

Conservationists launch campaign to cut demand for ivory

By Kerry Elizabeth, KnobelSdorff
Staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor
Washington

Efforts to stop poaching of
African elephants for their tusks
have been frustrated by a lack of
resources, cooperation with
poachers in some countries, and
the increasing value of ivory as
tusks have become more scarce.
So now, in hopes that cutting
demand for ivory products "will
put a crimp in supply, conserva-
tionists are asking American
consumers to stop buying ivory
for a while.

More than 80 percent of the
89,000 elephants killed each
year for their tusks are de-
stroyed illegally, according to
the International Union fOr Con-
servation of Nature and Natural
Resources.

This poaching has resulted in
the loss of half the elephant pop-
ulation in the past 10 years. In
- 1978, where there were 1.5 mil-

lion of the animals, today only
an estimated 700,000 are left,
says Diana McMeekin, vice-

 

president at the African Wildlife,

Foundation.

Each year, about 800 tons of
raw ivory - valued at $50 mil-
lion - is carved into $500 mil-

lion worth of items like jewelry
and jewelry cases, brushes,
ornaments, dice, and piano
keys.

Both the African and Ameri-
can Wildlife Foundations met in
Washington earlier this month

‘ to launch the “Year of the Ele-

phant” campaign, a banner un-
der which their voluntary boy-
cott message will be broadcast in
public-service announcements
on radio, in magazine ads, with,
they expect, the cooperation of
merchants and jewelry distribu-
tors in the United States.

“We will ask the major mer-
chants to shelve their ivory
products for the duration of the
campaign,” Ms. McMeekin says.
“We assume that by itself, ivory
doesn’t represent an important
part of revenues for the major
sellers.”

Even though products like bil-
liard balls or piano keys are usu-
ally made out of legally obtained
ivory, says Cynthia Moss, a sen-

. ior researcher with the African

Wildlife Foundation, there is no
reliable way to distinguish the
20 percent of legal ivory prod-
ucts from the 80 percent that are
carved from poached tusks. “We
would like to ask [Americans] to

voluntarily refrain from buying
all ivory,” she says.

The African Wildlife Founda-
tion began its campaign in the
US, hoping “there will be a [glo-
bally] contagious effect,”
McMeekin says.

But although the US imports

one-third of the market’s carved ‘

ivory, it consumes only between
5 and 10 percent of total ivory,

‘We would like to ask
_ [Americans] to
voluntarily refrain from

buying all ivory.’

both raw and worked.

“Japan prObably consumes
close to 75 percent of all raw and
carved ivory traded within a
year,” says Jorgen Thomsen, a
biologist with Trafﬁc USA, a
program of the World Wildlife
Fund, which monitors global
wildlife trade. “Most of Japan’s
carved ivory products never
show up in the world market,
because they never leave J a-
pan.” .

Ivory is a major part of J apa-
nese culture. Most adults, for ex-

ample, own a name seal that
they use to sign papers or
checks, and the most prized seals
are made from iVory, says Mr.
Thomsen.

The US imports about $30
million worth of ivory, the tusks
of some 27,000 elephants, ac-
cording .to the US Fish and
Wildlife Service. Of this, 95
percent comes through Hong
Kong.

Legislation calling for a total
ban on ivory imports was intro-

. duced last July by Rep. Anthony
Beilenson (D) of California. An .

aide says the Subcommittee on
Fisheries and Wildlife Conserva-
tion and the Environment will
begin hearings on the measure at
the end of June.

But even if US demand for
ivory products were to dry up, it
would not necessarily decrease
world demand or illegal poach-
ing.

Though the House aide says
that “almost no one supports a
complete ban,” the suggestion
has angered several African na-
tions, which regard a total ban
by the US as insensitive and ar-
rogant, says McMeekin at the
African Wildlife Foundation.

Part of the opposition comes

from countries that “cull” their
elephant populations to main-
tain a correct ecological balance,
according to an ofﬁcial from the
Zimbabwean Embassy.

In 1985, the government of
Zimbabwe sold $100,000 worth
of legally culled elephant tusks
to the US. Though that country
was not included in the list of
African nations targeted . by the
congressional proposal to ban
US imports, the ofﬁcial says,
other small nations that sell
some elephant products but
have a high level of poaching
would probably feel the effect of
a ban. _.

Because his country is small,
the ofﬁcial says, “you can never
minimize what little we can get
from our exports.” There are 30
African countries that export
some amount of ivory.

Ivory enables these nations,
which have very few exportable
minerals and natural resources
of their own, but depend heavily
on foreign goods, to get hard cur-
rency, the ofﬁcial. says.

“The idea that the elephant’s
not going to last forever has cre-
ated an even larger demand for
it,” and ivory is being stockpiled,
McMeekin says.

 




15368

Federal Register / Vol. 53. No. 83 / Friday. April 29. 1988 / Notices

 

Tudor Road. Anchorage. Alaska 99503;
telephone (907) 786—3399.

Copies of the Decision will be sent to
all persons and organizations on the
mailing list. Others wishing to receive a
copy of the Decision may obtain one by
contacting Mr. Knauer.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The

Service has selected Altemative B. with A

several changes. for implementation. As
described in the Plan. Alternative B is
the alternative preferred by the Service.
The Service is not recommending any.

additions on the Refuge to the National

Wilderness Preservation System.
Alternative B provides a high degree

of resource protection and a good

opportunity for achieving the purposes

set forth in the Alaska Lands Act.

including-conservation of fish and

wildlife populations and habitats.
Date: April 22. 1988.

Walter O. Stieglitz.

Regional Director.

{FR Doc. 88—9491 Filed 4—28—88: 8:45 am]

BILLING cops asm-ss-u

 

 

 

Endangered Species Convention; ..
Prohibition on Importation of Burundi
Ivory . -

AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service.
Interior.

ACTION: Notice-

W.

 

 

 

 

SUMMARY: Effective immediately. the
United States bans the importation of
ivory from Burundi that was not
registered Willi the CITES Secretariat by
December 1. 1986. All ivory importations
from any country that allows this
Burundi ivory. whether in a raw or
worked form. to be imported into or
pass through that country will be
prohibited.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: At the
fifth meeting of the Conference of the
Parties to the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) in 1985, The Secretariat was
given the authority to form an Ivory
Control Unit and to establish the Ivory
Quota Control Procedures which control
legal trade in African elephant ivory
between Parties (and certain non-Parties
adhering to these Procedures) and which
also allowed a one-time trade of ivory
stockpiled in non—producer countries
only if it was registered with the CITES
Secretariat by December 1. 1986. The
Second Republic of Burundi. a non-party
" and non-elephant producing country.

registered 89.464 Kg of raw ivory (18.148 -

tusks) with the Secretariat by this
deadline. Although ivory trade experts
believed that much of this ivory was

illegally obtained. the Secretariat
decided that stockpiles such as those in
Burundi needed to be brought under
control of the Ivory Quota Control
Procedures. so that the new quota
system for ivory exports could operate
efficiently and effectively. The entire
stockpile was thus allowed into
international trade. and most of it was
later imported legally into Hong Kong.
The United States has allowed the
importation of ivory derived from the

‘_ Burundi stocks from countries that are

party to CITES.

An informal report from the CITES
Secretariat and information from
independent sources now confirm that
an additional 100 :1- metric tons of
elephant ivory that have not been
registered under the CITES system have
been discovered in Burundi. According
to the report. the government of Burundi
has stated that 16.437 tusks (87.5625 Kg)
were imported prior to the import ban
instituted by the government of the
Third Republic on November 5. 1987.
and are now being held by three private
dealers. In addition. the Burundi
Customs Service. has seized 21.698 Kg of
ivory that was imported after the ban.
although their irregularity has not been
established and the status of these
stocks is still in question. Since no ivory—
pr. xiucing country has authorized the
export of this ivory to Burundi. and it
has not been registered under the CITES
system. the United States believes this
Burundi ivory was obtained illegally.

The United States is encouraged by
the actions of Burundi in imposing an
import ban on elephant ivory and in
attempting to enforce this ban.
Unfortunately. Burundi can take no legal
action against the ivory imported into
Burundi prior to the November 5 ban. a
quantity of illegal ivory nearly equal to
that which was registered under CITES
prior to December 1. 1986. While
Burundi does not want to be entrepot for
illegal ivory. the government is
reportedly powerless to prohibit export

of these new stocks.

Therefore. the United States
encourages all countries to join in
prohibiting the importation of this illegal
ivory. Furthermore. the United States
will take extraordinary measures to
determine the trading route of this ivory
to prevent its importation into this
country. We willinvoke the emergency
regulation provision. of the US.
Endangered Species Act [16 U.S.C. 1533
(b](7)) to ban all ivory importations from
any country that allows this Burundi
ivory. whether in a raw or worked form.
to be imported into or pass through that
country.

 

DATE: This action is effective April 29.

1988. There is not expiration date.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT!

Clark R. Bavin. Division of Law

Enforcement. US. Fish and Wildlife

Service. PO. Box 28006. Washington. DC

20038-8006. Telephone: 202—343-9242.
Dated: April 26. 1988.

Frank Dunkle.

Director.

[FR Doc. 88—9573 Filed 4—28-88; 8:45 am}

BILLING coo: 4310-55.»

\\
\

 

Intent To Prepare an Environmental
impact Statement or Environmental
Assessment; Fish Hatchery; Nisqually
Indian Reservation, Pierce County, WA

AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service
{Service}. Interior.

ACTION: Notice.

 

SUMMARY: This notice advises the public
that the Service intends to. 4; ther
information necessary fr.;;~~ €55 ..:-- g ‘
preparation of an Envi‘iﬁt pact "
Statement (EIS) or an Evironmental
Assessment (EA) for the construction of
a salmon hatchery in PierCe County.
Washington. ..

The proposed project is needed to
rebuild anadromous fish runs in the
Nisqually River Basin. Rebuilding of
anadromous fish runs in the basin is
essential to meet the demands of the
treaty and non-treaty commercial and
sport fisheries. while ensuring
continuing viability of the resource.

This notice is being furnished as
required by the National Environmental
Policy Act (NEPA) Regulations
(§1501.7). to obtain suggestions and
information from other agencies and the
public on the scope of issues to be
addressed in the EIS or EA. Comments
and participation in this scoping process
are solicited. interested persons are
encouraged to attend a public meeting to
identify and discuss major issues and
alternatives. ‘

DATES: A public meeting regarding this
proposal and preparation of the EIS or
EA will be held at the Main Conference
Room. Northwest Indian Fisheries
Commission on June 2. 1988. at 1:00 pm.
at the Nisqually Indian Tribal Center on
June 2. 1988. at 7:00 pm.» .. —

ADDRESSES: Northwest Indian Fisheries
Commission. 6730 Martin Way East.
Olympia. Washington 98506; Nisqually
Tribal Center. 4820 She~Nah-Num Dr..
SE. Olympia. Washington 98503. and
US. Fish and Wildlife Service. Assistant
Regional Director-Fisheries. 500 NE.
Multnomah Street. Suite 1692. Portland.
Oregon 97232. Written comments should

 

 

 




CORRESPONDENCE GROUP p. 7
NO; 534 ALASKA AND THE ARCTIC REFUGE '5 By Elaine Stansfield

Ten years ago I was in washington for the celebration dinner by a coalition of
environmentalists who were so elated at the passage of the Arctic wilderness
and Refuge Act, It was a moving evening, with many of us in tears, as we
celebrated the protection of the last great pristine area in the United
States° It never occurred to us that a Reagan inexplicable unconcerned about
the environment would appoint Secretaries of the Interior who would set in
motion plans to sell the Arctic to the highest bidders for oil, gas, lumber,
and minerals, Congressman Morris Udall has introduced a bill in the House,

H, R, 39, to declare the coastal plain a wilderness area in perpetuity,
Certainly the caribou migration and calving grounds would receive greater
protection along with the polar bears, snow geese, wolverines, and musk oxen,
Alaska's Governor Cowper and Congressman Stevens, ignoring environmental
considerations think it would be great instead to allow mining, probably
because Alaska would get 90% of all federal revenues from oil develOpment,
However, ecological studies show that there may not even be much in the.way of
oil reserves there, and exploratory work will be extremely costly, The
fragile ecosystem may be Unable to restore itself from development which could
include up to 600 oil Spills, pollution discharges, flaring gas vapors,
emission of oxides of nitrogen and sulfer dioxide, and makeshift dumps, H, R,
1851 would force comprehensive reforms in.the federal oil land gas leasing
programs for public lands, Ecology Center member Ernest w, Thorn in-a letter
to his Congressman was saddened that the Senate Energy Committee voted in
favor of S, 1217 that would permit oil exploration and possibly exploitation
in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, The Renew America Report by the Fund
for Renewable Energy and the Environment points out, "by increasing the
vehicle fuel efficiency by a mere one mile per gallon, we would save more oil
than what we might find in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge,”‘ And, in
addition to all of this, the Fish and wildlife Service (FwS) has just released
its draft Comprehensive Conservation Plan (CCP) for the Arctic Refuge which
will direct its management over the next 10 to 15 years, Planning is_good but
not when these agency, in disregard of the Alaska Lands Act, did not even ‘
consider the Arctic Coastal Plain for wilderness, Only-in the Arctic Refuge
is a complete continuum of undisturbed arctic and subarctic ecosystems
protected and the annual international migration of the Porcupine Caribou Herd
is possibly the most spectacular wildlife phenomenon left in North America,

TARGETS: Secretary of Interior Donald Hodel U, S, Fish and Wildlife Service
' washington, DC 20240 Attention: Bill Knauer
. 1011 East Tudor Road
Your Congressperson Anchorage, AK 99503
House 0ffice Building
Washington, DC 20515

no, 535 AFRICAN ELEPHANTS

 

The elephant raw ivory trade, 825 tons per year worth $50 million, continues
despite efforts to stOp poisoning, snaring, spearing, and shooting elephants
in Africa, Congresman Beilenson introduced H, R, 29%9, the Elephant
Protection Bill, to help curb the illegal entry into the United States of
ivory carvings (worth $500 million per year), At present over 70,000
elephants with tusks are killed each year—-the current population is only
800,000, The Subcommittee to which the bill has been referred has yet to hold
hearings, For more info: Society for Animal Protective Legislation, Po 0, Box
3719, Georgetown Station, washington, DC 20007,

TARGEng Honorable Gerry Studds, Chairman
’House Office Building, washington, DC 20515

 




p. 8 , CORRESPONDENCE GROUP CONTINUED

 

_N9, 536 SENAGE PLANT PROPOSAL IN IDYLLNILO, CALIFORNIA

According to the Citizens Committee for Conservation of the San Jacinto
Mountains, P, 0. Box 828, Idyllwild, CA 92349, (714) 659—5523, the proposed
sewage treatment plant for $15,6 million in Fern Valley would bring unwanted
development (from 3,000 to 12,000 residents plus high~rise buildings), cause
fewer nutrients to go back to the trees (no mere leach lines), and create a
greater water shortage (water not recycled back into the water table). Other
ecological problems include new service roads for construction with removal of
plants and straightening of the creek, and greater fire hazard from increased
spray effluent and economically summer home owners may have to pay 100 percent
of costs. The local residents seem to be happy with the present septic tank.
arrangement. 'They believe that the Environmental Impact Reports prepared in
1978 (by engineer Hirsh) and in 1987 (by engineers Metcalf and Eddy) are
inadequate and unlike earlier decisions by the Environmental-Protection
Agency, do have "significant environmental impacts," - . ‘

TARGET: Mr. Ed Brody, Construction Grants Branch
Environmental Protection Agency
‘ 215 Fremont Street
San Francisco, CA 94105

NO, 537 UNITED STATES POPULATION POLICY

The Atkins-Snow bill, H.R. 4270, is supported by Zero Population Growth, 2008
1/2 Preuss Road, Los Angeles, CA 90034, because it would provide that
restrictions now applied to foreign family planning programs must be
comparable to restrictions under Title X of the Public Health Service Act.
What this means is that population groups who also provide overseas full—scale
family pIanning services (even if these services are funded by
non-governmental funds) would be able to receive federal assistance for other
'programs which they conduct° '

TARGET: Your Congressperson
House of Representatives :
Washington, DC 20515

NO° 538 PLASTIC CAN CONTROVERSEY

The plastic can is a new beverage container produced by Petainer Development
Company anﬁ now being used by Original New York Seltzer in several cities
nationwide, The plastic can consists of a clear plastic body . *
(PET--polyethylene terephthalate), a plastic label (PVC-~polyvinyl chloride)
and an aluminum lid. Because it looks like aluminum it is starting to foul up
the aluminum recycling Operations and will probably cause a decrease in
recycling rates. Nhile the plastic can can be recycled it is virtually
non-recyclable in non—deposit states because of the high cost of collection°
Currently only about 1 percent of the 14,7-billion pounds of plastic packaging
we use per year is being recycled but the current demand for recycled plastic
(which cannot be used for any food contact purpose) is not enough to use all
the plastic already available, The Environmental Task Force, 1012 14th St,,
N. N,, Washington, DC 20005, believes that the possible 1o4~billion pounds of
new PET generated has "nothing in it for consumers and that a successful
recycling system must be put into place, ~

TARGET: Mr. Bruce Sweyd Mr. Lars Emilson
Original New York Seltzer Petainer , .
19445 East Nalnut Drive, N,‘ 3658 Atlanta Industrial DriVe
Walnut, CA 91789 A, . Atlanta,-GA 30331 ‘

 




HHMBHHMHTHBHWIHMBQB

n ECOLOGY CENTER OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, " ﬁi
ﬁi THE COMPENDIUM ﬂ
NEWSLETTER

EDITORE: NANCY PEARLMAN

@ l3
maﬁnmmmammmaﬁi

POST OFFICE BOX 35473 LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA 90035 - PHONE:( (213) 559- 9160
wHAY—JUNE.1988. n’ VOL. 16 5 A ISSN 9198 9195

REMEMBER OUR ENVIRONMENT AT THE P-oLEs -»

5 Proposition 70 is a bond act that provides for purchase and
A. proteCtion of $776 million worth of critical park lands, key
areas along the California coast, and wildlife habitat. For
permanent protection, sixty—four of California' 5 most impor-
tant natural are-as and a dozen categories of statewide con—
cern are specifically. written into the text of this initiative.
[Included are portions of the Santa Monica Mountains,

the San Dieguito River, Sacramento‘ s American River

 

Parkway, Big Sur, and the San Francisco Bay wet-

lands. Statewide projects allow grants to

 

“i local agencies to aclquire-and develop trails
and to restore and preserVe historic and
i archaeological sites. The California
legislature considered three pOSSible
7 bond acts to provide new funds in
' 1986 but, unfortunately, none of these
passed. 115601 our State Park System
has increased by' more than ZO-percent
in the last ten years; however, the
‘ system, has ndt grown to meet the in—
creased demand. Passage of the initia—

W I L D L I F E ,- CO A 8 TA L tiveis urgently needed now becaUse

funds for the conservation of wildlife

& 3 PA RK S I N I T I A T I VET habitat and parklands are. exhausted.

 




p. 2 ECOLOGY CENTER OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA NEWS

 

LISTINGS -- The following publications or stations mentioned the Ecology ’
Center of Southern California and its sponsored projects:
TDC--The Discovery Channel
Ulrich's International Periodicals Directory 1988-1989
Ulrich's Serials and Annuals 1988-1989
Directory Development
NRCM data base of the Library of Congress
The Phoenix (a Brooklyn, New York, paper)
23rd Chicago International Film Festival
Southern California Media Directory
TV Series, Serials and Packages by Broadcast Information Bureau
The Clarion, The Newsletter of the School of Education, California
State University, San Bernardino ‘
American Library Directory
Nest County Times, City of Pinole, California
Environmental Newsletter of the Claremont College's Student Association
for the Environment
California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection Forestry Education
Catalogue

ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE

Participation with literature tables as fairs including the Eighth Annual
Environmental Education Fair at the Los Angeles State and County Arboretum

Sponsorship in field studies programs and internships with many colleges and
universities including University of California, Los Angeles, and University
of Southern California

Connection with environmental networks focusing on specific subjects
including the Energy Network or ECDNET

Affiliation with the Retired Senior Volunteer Program sponsored by the federal
government's ACTION; these seniors collate, fold, stuff, and address our
large mailings ,

Endorsements of the "Coalition '88, Human Care Not Warfare March and Rally,"
the "Mutually Assured Devel0pment: Economic Security Through Economic
Change Conference," "Bioregional Project, NABC (North American Bioregional'
Congress) III," the Save the Mountain Park Coalition, and the Tobacco Tax “
and Health Protection Act of 1988 (the latter would provide at least 5
percent of the new revenue, $30 million per year, to go towards California
parks and wildlife in recognition of the damage and financial burden caused
by tobacco use

Attendance at many events by different volunteers included the Ninth Annual
Frank O'Connor Memorial College Television Awards by the Academy of
Television Arts and Sciences; the Cooperative Alliance Forum sponsored by
the Global Tomorrow Coalition and the USC Center for Public Education in
International Affairs; the Los Angeles Water Conservation Gardens Contest
Kickoff; the Restoring the Earth Conference, and the Mountain Lion Coalition
Meeting and Hearing '

Answered many questionnaires including one from the California Community
Foundation

Appearance by Nancy Pearlman on a panel on coastal issues on KTLA, Channel 5,
"The Gallery Show"

Greeted Venezualan representatives on a tour by the United States Information
Agency because they wanted to meet with community organizers

Showed ECONENS' "A Focus on Environmental Education-~Kimbark Elementary
School" at an "Integrating Environmental Education" Workshop by Project NILD

Thanks as always to the tremendous number of volunteers who make all of our
projects successful-~there are always more than we can mention but look for
their names under the articles or watch the credits on ECONENS or listen for
their names on ENVIRONMENTAL DIRECTIONS

 




 

 

Date:

JSSION AL RECORD— Extensions of Remarks

Tuesday, Ma

Mr. LAGOMARSINO.
today to call the attentio of my colleagues to
the historic significance f May 5 or Cinco de
Mayo. This day holds eat meaning for our
Hispanic friends on both sides of the border. it
marks the anniversary f the 1862 victory of
Mexican forces again t the French forces
trying to subjugate their nation.
This defeat of th French at Pueblo,
Mexico, is comparabl to the surrender of
‘ Cornwallis at Yorktow both momentous oc-
l casions where princip
I and equality were victo ious.
In celebrating this occasion, i would like to

l bring to your attention the great strides made. 7

y by Hispanics in my community, in particular
the achievements in the field of health care,
the Clinicas del Camino Real and the Guada-
lupe Clinic. in the area of providing housing
for farmworkers the Ochrillo Economic Devel-
opment Corp. is doin great work. El Concilio
dei Condado de Vent ra provides information
on social, cultural an educational matters as

‘ does Casa del them no of Santa Paula and

‘ Casa de la Plaza in Santa Barbara and El

1 Pueblo Unido of Sant Maria

Achievements in th“. field of business have
come from the Mexi an—American Chambers

4 of Commerce of O nard, Santa Paula, and
" Santa Barbara.

 

Future Leaders of America assist Hispanic '

youth to become
schools and comm

more involved in their

*der‘ly Hispanic com unity.

., These . ccomplis ments are all pavmg the-j“
way for In eased ,. ispanic Involvement in all

" areas of our Imerif-c»

mricans in saluting and

Congratulating A r Hisanic friends south of-
' Our own country on:

of Cinco de Mayo and ‘

~ in pledging out w nitinuing commitment to *

._ freedom, justice, and to cooperation and;
mutal respect for strengthing the ties that bind

. the border and . e e
_ this 126th annive 79"

ﬁatiOns o closely ether.

3%

SOMERS CELEBRATES ITS ’
I BICENTENNIAL _

HON. HAMILTON FISH, JR.

OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Tuesday, May 3, 1988

Mr. FISH. Mr.‘ Speaker, it is with great pride
, that l rise to salute the town of Somers, in
‘ Westchester County, in my home district of
New York which is celebrating its 200th anni-
versary.

The town of Somers was originally part of ‘

the Manor of Stephanus Van Cortlandt. The
i New York State Legislature created the town
on March 7, 1788 and named it the “Town of
Stephen." in 1808 the name was changed to
Somers in honor of Capt. Richard Somers, a
naval hero in the war with Tripolitan pirates.

s of freedom, justice,

nity and the Community. _
Services Organizatio is doing much in provid- .
jng care and educat'nal information to the ck.

Washington, D,C. 20009
MAY. 3 198g

“4", g;
‘ ' a " «I‘Iic‘u'; hi):
~ ~. 43. ,~
.31.?" . .. '1‘ .

May 3 18882.24

The town showed its serious side when in? ’
1809 it saw publication of the SomerS‘I‘? ‘-
Museum, the first newspaper in Westchesterg
County. But the toWn also had a funvlovrng» }1
side, as brought out by a local farmer,- HaCha:
liah Bailey, whom P. T. Barnum later called3 the f 4“
father of the American circus. Bailey put on aft -'
traveling show featuring hise hant, Old Bet
Other farmers also importedgexo’t'Fc animals to i
show; '

The Ele hant l and a w o

. of Old Be both of which Bailey built In the ‘

1820’s, are now listed in the National Registry ,
of Historic Places. The hotel has served as 3'
the seat of town government since 1927. ’
Somers continues to grow. in this desade, ‘ '
Texaco and IBM haVe located offices in the- _ -
town.
Mr. Speaker, l am grateful for the Somers
Bicentennial Cdmmittee and its cocharrper
sons, Don Penzine and Doris Jane Smith, for t 1;;
the activities they have planned. I "
On March 7 of this year, town reactants??-
celebrated the 200th anniversary with a write. *’
and cheese party. A grand ball, thch i; am
looking fonIvard to attending, will he held‘th
Saturday. And my fatherand l are also fasten

'3.- .

forward to the town’ s July. 4 parade, m .,

 

 

 

 




 

NATURE VOL. 333 26 MAY 1988

 

NEWS

Graduate university aimed at
research ﬂexibility

Tokyo

A UNIQUE new graduate university is to be
formed under the terms of a bill passed
last week by the lower house of the
Japanese Diet. The university, which will
offer doctoral courses to scientists with
masters’ degrees, will introduce some
ﬂexibility to Japan’s rigid university
research system, increase the competition
for graduate students and perhaps help to
open the country to foreign scientists.

The idea of creating the “General
Research Graduate University” was first
officially put forward in 1982 by the
directors-general of the national research
institutes, mostly established in the 19705
as central facilities for use by the universi-
ties.

Although among the best-equipped
research institutes in Japan, the institutes
have not been free to enrol their own
graduate students or to award degrees.
Graduate students wishing to use an insti-
tute’s facilities have instead been sent by
outside university professors.

The new graduate university, to be
jointly administered by the research insti-
tutes, will provide a supply of graduate
students and award doctoral degrees. It

will open in October, initially on a tem-
porary site on the a campus of the Tokyo
Institute of Technology in Yokohama.
The first 50 students will be accepted next
April and dispersed to the participant
research institutes —— those already cited
plus the institutes of genetics (Shizuoka)

and statistical mathematics (Tokyo).
There will be three departments to begin
with (in physical, life and cultural
science), but the organizers also hope to
add a joint research department for inter-
disciplinary research.

Students with masters’ degrees will be
accepted from universities throughout
Japan, but Professor Saburo Nagakura,
president of the Okazaki National Re-
search Institutes, who is in charge of set-
ting up the university, is particularly keen
to accept foreign graduate students; he
has already discussed the possibility of
student exchange with a British university.

Nagakura hopes that the new graduate
university will also introduce some ﬂexi-
bility imto a system in which lateral
movements of students, teachers and
researchers is notoriously small.

But some of the national laboratories
have decided not to join the new network,
continuing instead to recruit graduate
students from their mother universities (in
these cases, Tokyo University).

Indeed, Tokyo University has plans to
strengthen its graduate research
programme by fusing the undergraduate
and graduate schools, offering a six-year

 

master’s course. But this proposal is
opposed by some of the university’s
research institutes, which regard it as an
attempt to ‘steal’ their graduate students
(see Nature 330, 597; 1987).

Behind all these moves lies a battle
among Japan’s professors to gain access
to outstanding graduate students. But

 

Nagakura says that the new graduate uni-
versity is not intended to develop into a
‘tug of war’ over graduate students, a view
echoed by Professor Akito Arima, vice-
president of Tokyo University, who is
promoting the university’s graduate
school reform.

With an intake of only 50 students a
year, the new graduate university will
have a student population of only 150—
200, so that there will be plenty of students
for everyone, Nagakura says.

David Swinbanks

 

US plan for the protection
of African elephants

Washington

To reduce the slaughter of African ele—
phants for their ivory, the US—based Afri-
can Wildlife Foundation (AWF) last week
called for people to stop buying worked
ivory jewellery and other products. Short
of a complete ban on ivory imports, AWF
considers a US consumer-embargo the
most effective means to cut down on the
illegal poaching of African elephants.

AWF associate Cynthia Moss says
poaching has cut the African elephant
population by half since 1979, and adds
that each year 80,000 elephants die to
support the demand for worked ivory ——
70,000 directly for their tusks and another
10,000 young elephants after their
mothers or herd leaders have been killed.

The United States supports one-third of
the world’s demand for worked ivory, and
an estimated 80 per cent of the ivory sold
here is obtained illegally. The Convention
on the International Trade in Endangered
Species (CITES) lists the African ele—
phant as a threatened species. But no
effort is made to control the trade of
worked ivory because its origins are so
difficult to trace.

Some non-CITES African countries
without elephant populations, such as
Burundi, are said to buy poached ivory for
export. Other African governments do
nothing to control the illegal ivory trade

N. “‘1\ 8g.

 

going on within their borders.

Moves are afoot in the United States to
crack down on the illegal ivory trade. Last
month the US Fish and Wildlife Service
banned the import of all ivory from
Burundi. Legislation has also been intro-
duced to ban the import of all elephant
products to the United States.

But most wildlife conservation organi-
zations and ivory trade experts support a
combination of reducing the demand for
ivory products and tighter control of ivory
imports to slow down the poaching of ele—
phants. Many fear that a strict ban on
imports would simply force the illegal
ivory trade further underground, and pre-
vent African countries from tapping one
of their most important national resources
once the elephant populations recover.

The US House of Representatives
Committee on Merchant Marine and
Fisheries is putting together legislation
that may offer an alternative. The draft
proposes a five-year moratorium on
imports from only those African countries
unable to control their ivory trade. There
would also be a US tax on sales of ivory
products to be channelled into an African
Wildlife Conservation Fund. The draft
would further ban imports of worked
ivory from countries or other intermedi-
aries purchasing ivory from countries that
encourage poaching. Carol Ezzell

Lindblad/African Wildlife Foundation.

 




f ﬂora Annalee dimes -

2A Weekly Roundup of News

 

 

 

 

 

'A new census of elephants in East Africa reveals -
, that the elephant population in Kenya, Tanzania
and Uganda has declined significantly in the last
10 to 15‘ years. Environmental experts predict
the animal will become extinct in those countries

by 1998, if poaching practices persist. Attempts
to protect elephants from poachers, through
export quotas and bans on private sales, has
driven up the price of ivory since 1970, from
$7.74 per kilo to $100 per kilo.

Gray bars represent 100% of elephant population in ‘1977, black bars represent percent of population
' surviving, in 198‘7.‘ ‘

PERCENT CHANGE

L ,1 UGANDA. .- . . . . . ........ ' ..... ~56%
,. (In 7987, Uganda agreed to limit annual ivory exports to 756 tusks.)
I 140ueen Elizabeth National Park. .
(formerly Rubenzwori)
2. Marchison‘ Falls National. Park. .
" ‘ ~_'(f‘ormerly Kabalega)‘ '
3. Kidepo NatSOnal Park .........

 

I , KENYA. . . . -. .1' ................ eras

(Kenya banned private ivory sales in 75' .78. The government sells tasks confiscated
frompoach‘ers and those. harvested from animals- that die natural/y.)

._ *ctMars‘abrrN‘aﬁon‘aTReser‘ﬁaﬂj'm‘ -
,5.'Masai Maia National Park ..... +54%

‘ ,6. Amboseli National Park ....... +51%
.7. Tsavo National Park .......... 40%

 

, Dares
- 710 Salaam

19,300 »

 

1 84,872

confiscated from poachers and those harvested from animals that die natura/ly.) O

l_

N Sggﬁqulf-ION DECREASE

AREASOF
/ POPULATION INCREASE

D AREA OF
NO CHANGE

'78. Serengeti National Park ....... -87% n 3,008
3,000
43,685

109,000

395.
3,000
21,986
55,000

 

I , 9. Tarangire National Park. . . no change

10. Ruaha National Park ......... -50%

 

 

1 1. Selous Game Reserve ........ ~50%

 

 

THE RISING PRICE OF IVORY

According to the World Wildlife Fund,
the price of ivory has increased more
than 12—fold since 1970. The group, a
leader in the fight against
the illegal ivory trade,
assembles price figures
from a variety

of legal and

black-market

SOUI‘CGS.

Price per kiio $7.44;

 

 

Herd of African elephants gathers near watering hole at

a game preserve.

dollars
310-100

$74.42

 

1 978 .1987

 

 

StAfIica

MICHAEL HALL/ Los Angeles Times

. New Census Shows ThatPoaching Taken HeavyTollonElephants

'By SY MONTGOMERY

new census of elephants in East Africa reveals
that the elephant population in Kenya, Tanza—

nia and Uganda has dropped by 87% or more in"

< ‘the last 15 years, and the report predicts that the
animal will become extinct in those countries within 10
years if poaching practices persist.

The census further says this unprecedented “popu-
lation crash” includes many national parks and game
reserves in those countries. It also suggests that the
situation may be equally grim for elephants through-
out Africa-

“This is happening so fast no one can believe it.
Sanctuaries have been turned into shooting galleries. If
the demand for ivory is fed, it’s going to wipe out
elephants in East Africa,” said Richard Estes, chair—
man of the antelope specialist group of the Internation-
al Union for the Conservation of Nature and Naturai
Resources.

The new census was conducted by elephant special-
ist Iain Douglas-Hamilton and commissioned by the

‘ European Economic Community and World Wildlife
Fund. His report appears in the East African Wildlife
Society’s journal, Swara, which hit the newsstands in
Nairobi in late March.

' Douglas-Hamilton said he was able to spot only 100

elephants in the Kilifi District of coastal Kenya in
1987—where 10,000 elephants were known to have
existed in 1973. '

And in Uganda’s Murchison Falls South National
Park—an area where the animals are supposedly

, protected—the number of elephants has dropped from

s. '. l 0 18,800 to 725 in 15 years, decreasing by 95%, he said.

' .1 Decline is Precipitous

v " I “The numbers are declining much faster than people
thought,” said Rick Weyerhaeuser, director of World

. ‘ I (Wildlife Fund’s Africa Program. “This is a disaster.”

~‘ .« " I. T‘For‘ East,Africaxtheidata would suggest that the
I Felecia-anti " “ ' ‘ an "d * gered species,” Douglas-
.». .1 ’ . -. 19

researcher Elizabeth Marshall ThomaS, whose work
helped lead to the 1983 discovery that elephants use
sounds below the threshold of human hearing to
cemmunicate over 2 miles or more. “We’re going to
live to see'the end of Wlld elephants in Africa unless
there’s a step to this.” > .

The census, performed by researchers flying over
knoWn elephant areas and counting the pachyderms,
surveyed 31 areas in Uganda, Kenya and Tanzama.

In a few protected areas, such. as Kenya 3 famed
Masai Mara Reserve and Amboseh National Park, the
elephant pOpulation has Increased as. a result of
effective anti-poaching patrols and tourism 1n recent

years.
But th
unprotected a

e overall numbers show a stark decline. In
reas, the 10-year Chang]?3 Shams a 78:70
~ - hant o ulation o as rica. n
(1359632; haereeaI:p whicli) Include national parks and
pame reserves, the decline is 51%. . h
Increasingly, Douglas-Hamllton sa1d,uelep ant carC-1
casses are littering hlS study areas. Drought "an
human encroachment are not k1111ngthean1mals, he
said inatelephone interview from Nairobi. 'd .
That the ivory trade 18 respons1ble, he sat , lS
evidenced by “the number of dead elephants I slee
[while] flying over Africa and, on all of them, the tus s

are missing"

AfriCan

Patti Loesche, a Douglas—Hamilton colleague, said
she has been seeing an average of one wounded
elephant each day in the course of her wildlife studies
over the past year at Tanzania’s Lake Manyara.

Meeting an elephant on a forest trail “is an
incredibly exciting experience that deepens your
understanding of the way our ancestors lived,” Estes
said. But walking along those same trails today, she
added, “you encounter the ghosts of elephants.”

About a quarter of Africa’s estimated 764,000
elephants are believed to be in Kenya, Tanzania,
Uganda, Ethiopia and the Sudan. But these are
admittedly guesses, based on little documentation.

Although census data is even more scanty for other .
, African nations, Douglas—Hamilton said, the situation

is probably the same—or worse—over the rest of
Africa, with the exception of a few southern nations
like Zimbabwe, where elephant herds are carefully
managed and reportedly growing despite a thriving
ivory trade.

But in Sudan, Chad, the Central African Republic
and Zaire, poaching has Virtually wiped out the animal
already, according to an earlier Douglas-Hamilton
article in the journal of the English Fauna Preservation
Society, Oryx. .

During 1979-82, fer example, Sudan exported 1,200
tons of ivory representing the deaths of an estimated
107,000 elephants, or about 80% of the total elephant
population in that country, according to Mutasim
Bashir Nimir, director of the Sudan Wildlife Research
Center in Khartoum.

 

‘This is happening so fast no one can
believe it. Sanctuaries have been
turned into shooting galleries.’

 

g aivory prices;—
‘A " f :3

, . 0

national parks.

Since 1971, the value of arms imported to the
strife-ridden continent has increased from $500 million
to $4.5 billion. And some of those weapons have found
their way into poachers’ hands, according to Douglas-
Hamilton. He said that some soldiers find poaching an
easy way to augment meager salaries and that park
guards are often simply not equipped to deal with
well-armed poachers. '

Tempted by fast money, “it is not at all unusual for
park guards to turn into poachers themselves,” Estes
said. This is documented by numerous researchers and
authors and acknowledged by African officials.

Douglas- Hamilton’s latest census contradicts earlier
reports that have suggested that, at least in some parts
of Africa, concern over ivory-driven elephant poach-
ing, is exaggerated.

In the late 19603 and early ’7OS, elephants fleeing
poachers congregated in some national parks such as
Tsavo in Kenya. The concentration of animals dam-
aged trees and shrubs and, for a time, the Kenyan
government actually considered culling elephants in
these protected areas.

Moreover, Studies as recently as in 1982 and 1983
sponsored by the US. Fish and Wildlife Service have
concluded that ivory trade did not pose an immediate

. crisis for African elephants. Instead, researcher Ian.

Parker had said, an expanding human population was
the major threat.

But Douglas—Hamilton has argued since then that
Parker’s thesis was based on incomplete ivory trade
records that represented only a tiny percentage of the .
actual numbers of elephants killed for their tusks.

International trade records show that nearly 300
tons of uncarved elephant tusks were legally exported
from African nations in 1986. But a 1987 meeting of
officials of the Convention for International Trade in
Endangered Species concluded that only 26% of the
ivory that actually left Africa was exported legally.

As the biggest tuskers are wiped out, elephant
hunters are resorting to killing smaller and younger
animals, according to Douglas-Hamilton. He said the
average weight of tusks imported by Japan—like the
United States, a major consumer of ivory—fell from
16.29 kilograms (35.91 pounds) in 1979 to 9.7 kilograms
(21.38 pounds) in 1982.

Some Governmental Controls

The governments of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda in
recent years have imposed some controls over the
ivory trade, but poachers in those countries are
continuing to provide most of the world’s African
ivory.

The Tanzanian government took over control of the
sale of ivory in 1986, allowing export only of ivory
obtained with legal permits. Kenya outlawed private
ivory trading in 1978, leaving the job to government-
sponsored cullers and marketers. And Uganda in 1987
agreed to limit annual ivory exports to 156 tusks.

Some wildlife experts hope that, in time, interna-

tional trade agreements that restrict ivory sales to

scientifically determined, legally enforced quotas will
quell poaching. ‘ '
An ivory quota system [was set up by Convention for
International Trade in “Endangered Species agreement
in 1986, which. was intended to impose limits on ivory
exportation. - ,

,.

The World Wildlife. Fand’s. Weyerhaeuserzi-zrsaid ”
_ itil‘f ;“ ‘

powerfu economiﬂ?“

incentive to preserve their wildlife resources. He said

he hopes that Douglas-Hamilton’s census will provide
new incentive to enforce the treaties and adherence to
the quota system. .

 

Montgomery is a freelance writer based in Boston.

 

ENIGMA

April Showers Bring Probabilities
By SOLOMON W. GOLOMB

It is a rainy April day in London, and each of the 12
members who lunch at the Pickwick Club checks his
black umbrella with the hall porter. As they leave, the
porter. hands each of them one of the '12 umbrellas,
completely at random. It is possible—though quite ,
unlikely—that each member gets his own umbrella
back. It is also possible and somewhat more likely that
no member gets his own umbrella back. But what is the
least probable answer, from O to 12, for the exact
number of members who would get their own
umbrellas back by this random assignment?

 

Answer appears on Page 8.

 




v “U‘L‘ 55b UV.“
:1 \,
i o , o auuua

Date;

 
 
    
  
     
   
    
    
 
  

 
     

    

     

       

MY1919“»
' ONGRESSIONAL RECORD .- Extensions 0}
dlife orga'niza- i

" y19 1.988 ‘ e. c

1;? increased Medicare reimbursement , for merit and» international .Wﬂ _.
pawl-irzho‘jspitals and encouraged health care “0115 P35 arrest? . , , _
””ional’s to locate in underserved areas. the em 591°“ reserve. Putin? 910m” in
But more must " b done . to asSure rural m-OS“ 9‘ Africa is bleak, mm ”an“??? anﬁ
ease or the healtﬁ. care it needs. For that $231,211: d rangers. “mm?" to 7 r 0 I O .
‘ “ason, Mr. Speaks , l was pleased to 90- But Africa is only one front in- this battle.
. ”’ smhsor House Jom Resolution 461, deslg~ As long as the market eXpands, poaching
‘ - ay 15, 1988, as “Nation- will flourish. Africans who o the actual

“Ft -' A areness Week." We in killingget only a tiny cut of the proﬁts. But

’ can be a huge supplement to

ion as a whole must What they set
sparse incomes.
' would simply stop buying

and severe problems it If Americans
the challenged provrd- ivory trinkets, the world mar et would
shrink by 30 percent. Consumer boycotts

mising tactic, and wild-

d the killing. or elephants in l

      
    
        
        
       
      
  
     
   
 
 

    
 

 
   
   

   
  
       
  
    
  
    
 
 
  
  
 

 
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

* . . K}: are, therefdre. a proW mgt Afri ‘
_ y ' .u , life groups like the ash * on-based ' —
' SAVE TH " E PHANT can Wildlife Fund are going to push that .
_ r '. V , approach during the coming Year of the
" " i ' HON. DON EDWARDS Elephant observance. Q .
. , A or CALIFORNIA > In the long terrkirril. development of better
i} ‘j ' g ‘ ,~ . ENT methods for mar g Wary—employing. per-
‘3: ,i ‘ ‘ m Tm: HOUSE OF “PRES “IVES haps, such sophisticated techniques as irra-
‘ r > , Thursday, M ay 19, 1988 . diation—could help controlthe commerce in
Mr EDWARDS of California. Mr. S eaker, Poached WSKS- At present, it's nearly impos'
' p sible to distinguish between illegal and legal

. l'mpLou'd to be among the 73 cosponsors of i

“the Elephant Protection Act, introduced by Vgeygislation may play a in“ too though
6°“ ressman ' BE'LENSON from California. E"' outright bans on t e import of ivory could
actment of this measure is needed to prevent alienate - ‘
é rapid extinction of the world’s largest ter- an honest cf

reStrial animal. .' harvest. Those countries sorely need the '
éThe Elephant Protection Act is so vitally im- foreign = enhance a legitimate ivory trade
ii 2 pertain because the elephant population is could brmg. . - . '
iiideeﬁnjng at the alarming rate of 10 percent a aggtasﬁéeng‘z‘gfggﬁ‘?zfgsgggg°ggf 3d

‘ Yea-“and presently there are only 700900 re- indiffernce. In that sense this battle’is cru-
' :riiaining. The elephant will disapper it this cial for humanity too. i
trend is notiundamentally altered. Consuming ’ I ‘

‘i'..ever one-third of the elephant ivory in the
wand market, the United States must claim
2.1.- .significant responsibility. it is for this reason
i_' égg‘githat 1 support an American boycott of ele-
'.phant products. The global market for these
[items of luxury would be sharply reduced, thus
*T__jl‘essening the pressure on already fragile ele-A
‘ ‘phant populations.
, l would like to share with my colleagues an
:editorial which appeared in the Christian Sci- 3
grence Monitor of May 16; 1'988,'that explains in
; mor’edetail this unfortunate dilemma. Again,
'_ .. urge my colleagues to support the Elephant

Protection Act.
" . ‘- [From the Christian Science Mo
’ 16, 1988]

I'r’s TIME To SAVE THE ELEPHANT
:91; ~ _, The image of a bull elephant, billowing
, his ears and trumpeting a challenge, sym-
bolizes ‘ nature’s magnificence. But if that
image is to survive in fact, not just in our
2.;; _ imaginations. quick action is neede . '
' - Wildlife experts estimate that 800,000 of
a; * Africa’s elephants were slaughtered for
, a their tusks in the past decade. Some 700,000 \
-“ . ’Iremain. They’re being shot at the rate of p
X 70,000- a year; another 10,000 die because
d protectors of

     
  
  
 
 
     
      
     
        
 
 
   
 
 
 
  

 

   
  
 
 
     
       
     
 
      
     
     
     
     
    
   
      
     
     
  
    
  
 
 
 
  
 

"v

nitor, May

‘.-/r-_..._—'::,_.. 4._
. . , l ._ ' . . . -
‘ 4 t V.

   
 
 
  

  
  
  
  
  
    
    
     
      
      
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 

older. elephants, teachers an

theyoung, arelost.
' "It’s not stretching things; very far to say

3,}... _ that the -Western consumer who buys
" T , .7 . carved ivory in a New Yorkboutique is help-
. .ingppull‘ the trigger in the African bush.
”Each year tons of poached ivory is secreted
' " out of places ' ' anda to
the Far East fer carving, then off to retail- -
' ersin the United States, Europe, and Japan.
‘-» «.I‘nthe‘ process, the value of the ivory‘multi—
_plies..ia‘~ hundred. times. It is estimated that
_1;j" 804 persentgoi the. ivory being sold today
i '1?_;_,.:2I,.~ comes frompoaching. .
’ " A; ;. .— Cle‘arly; Africa’s nations have a crucial
', . _. , role inls'aving the elephant from extinction. ‘
:5,“ ‘ lIInﬁKenya elephants have made a comeback ..
(_ '_';~ in or few protected wildlife reserves. An a
‘ a» “ concerted effort by the Tanzanian govern-

’\
".1

  
 
  
  
  
      
     
     
     
      
     
     
  
 
 
 
  
    

   
  




Principles on legislation to protect elephants
adopted by World Wildlife Fund/U.S.
at the May 17, 1988 board meeting

1. Moratorium on importation of all elephant ivory from any
country that:

a) is not a member of CITES,

b) is not adhering to all relevant CITES requirements,

C) infthelcasemoﬁiggy:ivgry, does not have a population
of native elephants living in the wild, or

d) acts as an intermediary for the sale ofwillegal
ivory.

2 . _.l,f_ _therabove,m.dQ.e,..s,,-..n.o¢ti haltreluephant , isla‘ughter, by; the
October 1989 CITES meeting: a total worldwide ban on iVQrY-

 




)AbJSCHTAEFER. , l; , ENERGY/HUDCKMAMERCE
um DISTRICT, COLORADO * COMMITTEE

1317 LONGWORTH BUILDING

WASHINGTON, DC. 20515 SUBCOMMITTEES:

(202) 225-7882 \ J OVERSIGHT AND INVESTIGATIONS

ENERGY AND POWER
TH HURON STREET, #101
3ESGSLOESVOOD COLORADO 80110 TRANSPORTATION. TOURISM. AND

(303)762-8890 (‘Iﬂngl‘wﬁ [If thB Huitfh $13125 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS

~911111252 - nf Eeprwmtatiuea
maahingmn, 13.01.

April 26, 1988

Eva Lindsey
12280 East Arkansas Avenue
Aurora, Colorado 80012

Dear Friend:

Thank you for your postcard regarding H.R. 2999, the
Elephant Protection Act. I appreciate the time you took to share
your thoughts with me.

As you know, H.R. 2999 was introduced by Representative
Beilenson and would prohibit the importation or exportation and
certain other transactions involving elephant products.
Currently this bill is in the Merchant Marine and Fisheries
Committee. Though I am not a member of this committee, I assure
you that I will keep your thoughts in mind should I have an
opportunity to vote on this issue.

Again, thanks for writing. If you have any further comments
or concerns on this or any other issue, please feel free to
contact me again.

Best regards.

DAN SCHAEFER
Member of Congress

 




\MRS. HALE) BOGGS, MC. WASHINGTON OFFICE
20 DISTRICT, LOUISIANA 2353 RAYBURN BUILDING
COMMn-rEES, WASHINGTON, DC 20515-1802
APPROPRIATIONS (202) 22543536
DISTRICT OFFICE

Qtnngress at the ﬁHniteh étates

ICHAIR. TASK FORCE ON CRISIS 500 CAMP STREET
NEw ORLEANS LA 70130—3385

INTERVENTION) ﬁougﬁ 0f Reprﬁgentatiheg (504)5894274

NANCY MCGEOWN

AOMINISTRAIIVE ASSISTANT maghmgtﬂﬂ, Em: 20515”1802

March 25, 1988

Ms. Odette Grosz
222 Harrison Avenue
New Orleans, Louisiana 70124

Dear Ms. Grosz:

This will acknowledge receipt and. thank you for your letter advising me
of your support of H. R. 2999, the Elephant Protection Act, introduced by
Congressman Anthony Beilenson.

This bill has been referred to the House Committee on Merchant Marine
and Fisheries’ Subcommittee on Fisheries, Wildlife Conservation and the Environ—
ment. In addition, executive comment has been requested from the Departments
of Commerce, Treasury, Transportation and the Interior.

H. R. 2999 would direct the President to propose to the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species that all trade in elephant products
be suspended until accurate data demonstrates the stability of healthy elephant
population. It would prohibit the knowing importation, exportation or sale of
such products by any person subject to U S. jurisdiction, but would also authorize
certain exceptions for scientific and survrval purposes. Finally, civil and criminal
penalties would be establlshed for the violation of the Act

Please rest assured that I will continue to monitor developments closely
and will keep your concerns and comments firmly in mind.

With kindest regards,

Sincerely,

0 fl "‘

i: CHIRP 655,4 Tit?) ri' £33» ! “it":
Lindy (Mrs. Hale) BOggs, M‘C

//(
~(
'4’

 




 

Hicial Organ of“

 

 




 

 

 

.l_

!

a)

16 t

G

validated or evaluated, and others who say
that our motives are laudable and the con—
cept of alternatives beyond reproach —' but
we will never find ways of replacing the
laboratory animal procedures they will still
have to use in their own work!

Secondly, I want to emphasise that there
is no need for conflict between supporters of
human welfare and animal welfare. We are
in favour of alternatives because of what
they have to contribute to the relief of both
animal suffering and human suffering. That
point is central to FRAME’s ethos and
strategy.”

Dogs for the Disabled

Mrs. Frances ilay, who is disabled, trained
her Alsatian cross dog, Kim, to help her
around the house with a- number of chores,
including fetching and carrying and helping
her up the stairs. Following a Radio 2 discus-
sion on the Derek Jameson show between
the Assistant Chief Veterinary Officer, Alas—
tair Mews, and Mrs. day, a preliminary meet-
ing was held on the 24th March in London to
examine the possibility of setting up an
organisation to train and place dogs in dis-
abled people’s homes, in order to help them
with day-to-day tasks. Similar organisations
are already operating in America and
iioHand.

— Courtesy, RSPCA Today

Non-Human Primate Research

There has been much concern about the
use of non-human primates in research. One
justification of their use in biomedical re—
search is their close evolutionary relation—
ship with man. However, this argument pro-
vides even stronger ethical and humani—
tarian reasons for not using them, in that
they can suffer as much, if not more than,
humans because of their lack of understand-
ing of the reasons for their suffering.

One particular area of concern has been
in the housing of primates, including ways to
improve facilities for communication bet-

ANIMAL CITIZEN

ween individuals, play facilities and other
improvements such as providing food in bedd-
ing for a more natural foraging behaviour.

The Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare (UFAW) and the Royal Society are
shortly to publish a guide to care and housing
of laboratory animals and this is to be wel—
comed, especially in terms of primate hous—
ing. It was encouraging to see during a
recent visit by the RSPCA to the Huntingdon
Research Centre that they are making substan-
tial efforts to improve housing conditions
and shall be using the guidelines as a mini-
mum requirement for the animal housing
facilities.

The FRAME/CRAE alliance has recently
published a handbook, The Use of Non-
iiuman Primates as Laboratory Animals in
Great Britain. This is an excellent summary
which highlights the area of concern and
submits proposals for alleviating the suffering
of primates in research.

, —— Courtesy, RSPCA Today

ll Ivory Trade banned in Tanzania

It is news of cheer to animal lovers all over
the world that Tanzania has banned the
export and import of ivory in its efforts to
control illegal slaughter of precious ele-
phants for their tusks. According to a reliable
estimate Tanzania had 1 lakh elephants a
decade ago. But unfortunately due to in—
ordinate killing of elephants by poachers by
using sophisticated weapons like submachine
guns, their population has dwindled to
50,000 today. On an average about 15 ele-
phants per month were killed for their tusks.
Now ivory sales in Tanzania were banned
and dealers in elephant tusks are ordered to
return their trading licences and unprocessed
ivory to the Government with immediate
effect.

Royal Commission on Zeals

The Royal Commission which was estab-
lished in 1984 for investigating and making

 

 




 

 

20 ANIMAL CITIZEN

forest reserve recently. Shri Pratapsingh Rane,
the Chief Minister of Goa, presiding over the
function said that Goa had taken systematic
steps for the preservation of wildlife. Mr.
Rane appealed to the students to involve
themselves in the mission to protect wildlife
and maintain ecological balance of nature.
He gave away prizes to 'the winners in the
competitions held for students to create wild-
life awareness. The Forest Minister for State,
Shri Subash Shirodkar, released a booklet
which described the bird sanctuary at Chorao
Island and the steps taken by the State to
protect the mangroves on'the island.

UNIVERSAL DECLARATION FOR THE
RIGHTS OF ANIMALS

At its recent meeting held in New Delhi,
the Indian League for Animal Rights has
urged the Prime Minister to adopt a univer-
sal declaration for the rights of animals. The
Governing Board of the Indian League for
Animal Rights which held its deliberations
under the Chairmanship of Shri Justice
V.R. Krishna Iyer, the former Judge of Supreme
Court of India and Former Vice-Chairman
of the Animal Welfare Board, has decided to
affiliate the League with the World organi-
sation for Rights of the Animals and the
International League for Animals Rights. The
Board also decided to request the Noble
Prize Committee to institute an award on
animal welfare to be presented to an out-
standing humanitarian every year.

PRIME MINISTER CONSIDERS
ENVIRONMENT AN INTERNATIONAL
ISSUE

Addressing the United Nations, the Prime
Minister of India, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi, told the
United Nations General Assembly that
environmental issues were closely linked to
the larger issues of peaceful co—existence,
international co—operation, disarmament
and development. Speaking further, he said,
”environment is an international issue to be
placed in the context of international co-
operation, to be pursued through international

institutions, to be linked to all aspectsof
international relations.

Conservation, he pointed out, was each
nation’s task. But a task can be accomplished
only in the setting of a co-operative world
order.”

Speaking about the environmental problems I

in India, the Prime Minister said that a new
mechanism to effectively control pollution
and to check the degradation of environ-
ment were being developed in the country.
He said ”We assess the environmental
impact of development work so as to harmo-
nise development with the environment.”
He said that India was trying to integrate
complex environmental issues into its design
of development and there were no easy or

readymade answers to cope up with the:

environmental problems. However, he felt
that we should give equal priority to develop-
ment and conservation. Mr. Gandhi felt that
environment everywhere has been jeopar-
dised by fumes, smokes and wastes caused
by industrial pollution. He felt that worst of
all was the passing of pollution and environ-
mental hazards beyond the boundaries of a
country.

”There is no political boundary which
delimit the spread of poisonous gas, no line
on a map which radiation cannot cross, no
national frontier at which effluents can be
turned back. All those affected by such trans-
national consequences of environmental
damage must have an equal say in the resolu-
tion of the problems,” he said.

He said that the conservation of the
earth’s environment had to be ensured
through democratic discussions in inter-
national forums.

 

Mercy is a virtue that has a verY high
value in the eyes of God. He rewards
merciful person with His best blessings-
Moreover it is the best way to love and
serve God, our Father. Cultivating the
sense of mercy to animals and birds
makes us noble and win for us the bless-

 

 

ings of God. _ Ruby sghadrach

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

ACTION ALERT

Protect the Natural Lake

HE conservationists have urged the Madh-

ya Pradesh Government to declare Dihaila
Jheel, a seasonal lake of refuge for a variety
of migrating birds, a wetland of international
importance. They want this natural lake has
to be developed without delay. According
to the experts of the Bombay Natural His—
tory Society it is second only to the sanctuary
in the Koleodev National Park at Bharatpur,
with regard to the rich diversity of bird spe—
cies in the sanctuary.

According to a report prepared by the
Bombay Natural History Society about 1 lakh
birds are being present at the Jheel at any
given time. Flocks of ducks are sighted at
the lake in October and during the earlier
part of November. During March-April, large
population of Stint, Rull and Reeves are
found apart from 97 species of aquatic and
semi-aquatic birds. The report says that 16
species of duck can be spotted at the Jheel,
apart from the bareheaded geese and the
flamingoes. As the Jheel happens to be one
of the best in Madhya Pradesh, it would be
included as a wetland of international impor-
tance under the relevant international conven-
tion. Mr. Asad R. Rahmani, who prepared
the report for Bombay Natural History So—
ciety, says that the bird sanctuary at Bharat—
pur has received attention, whereas the other
wet bodies havegnot got much attention.
The report points out that the birds at Dihaila
Jheel are being protected as the lake is lo-
cated inside the Kerara Bustard Sanctuary.
However, there was no special protection to
the Jheel as the staff of the forest department
posted at the sanctuary are helpless so far as
the protection of the habitat is concerned,
because mos-t of the sanctuary area is in the

private hands, resulting the bund and sluice
gates in decrepit condition. As the land is
privately owned, the area is used for culti-
vation when the Jheel dries up or in the
event of monsoon failure. That apart, the
Jheel area is used for bathing and washing
clothes etc., by the villagers. Asad Rahmani
has recommended that the area should be
brought under immediate Government con -
trol if this area is to be protected. He has
also recommended in his report that culti-
vation to a limited extent can be continued
during the drought years, even after the
land is taken over by the forest department.
The report also suggests that the lake waters
should not be misused, or overused and also
wastage of water should be prevented.

Animal lovers and bird lovers hope that
the State Government will take early steps
to declare Dihaila Jheel which is offering
refuge to thousands of birds, a wetland of
international importance.

Egé
THE STRAY DOG
By AMMUJAVALLI KURUP

From dustbin to dustbin it wanders about,
From dustbin to dustbin, it wanders alone,
For a scrap of some food or a bit of a bone,
When all of a sudden the rope comes along!
Mercilessly caught, dragged away,

Into that mobile jail, the Corporation Van,
Destroyed to ensure the safety of man.

And then, is man’s life so safe?

As if to atone for his terrible sin,

A few dogs are preserved as pets in the home
And then, it is within the garden they roam,
Here again to ensure the safety of man l

I

 

 

 

 




 

Act’ioner FEB/MARCH 1988

Friends of Animals

IVORY

In 1980, the elephant population was about
1,500,000. Today, the elephant population has
been reduced to about 700,000. More than
half of Africa’s wild elephants have perished
in a tragic holocaust during the past seven
years.

One need not be a math wizard to under-
stand that, if effective action is not taken soon,
the African elephant will certainly become an
extinct species before the end of the century.

Greed is the reason for this catastrophe.
The elephant’s misfortune is its ivory tusks.
They have become so valuable that poachers
are now calling them “white gold.” The cur—
rent market price runs a bit over $100 per
kilogram. And if the elephant goes extinct,
and ivory can no longer be produced, its value
will certainly skyrocket. Thus, greedy in-
vestors are hoarding ivory until the elephant’s
extinction.

The three keys to solving the elephant
crisis are habitat countries, ivory importing
countries and CITES (Convention on Inter-
national Trade in Endangered Species) — the
endangered species treaty. Effective action by
any one of these three could save the ele-
phant. But so far, all aCtion - no matter
how well meaning or sympathetic — has been
inadequate.

Habitat Countries: Elephants live in
nearly all African countries south of the
Sahara. Some of these countries have ex-
pressed great concern for their elephants and
have tried to protect them. Others, however,
are deeply involved in the ivory trade. Often,
countries selling ivory are not always selling
their own ivory. Poachers kill elephants in one
African country where the animal has legal
protection, and then smuggle the ivory to
a neighboring country where it is legally
exported. '

An outrageous example of this concerns
Burundi, a small country in central Africa
which has absolutely no elephants of its own

-— they were all killed off many years ago. In
1986, Burundi issued legal export certificates
for nearly 100 tons of ivory (the equivalent of
about 12,000 dead elephants).

A large portion of this ivory came from
Kenya, where the elephant receives fairly
good protection. At a recent CITES meeting,

the Kenyan delegate complained bitterly that
Kenyan elephants are being slaughtered by
poachers, and their tusks hacked off and
smuggled into Burundi. At least one ship-
ment was discovered when Kenyan border
guards made a close inspection of a fuel oil
tank truck crossing into Burundi. Pushed
down inside the fuel oil they found nearly a
ton of ivory.

Ivory Importing Countries: People kill
elephants because there is a market for their
ivory. There is a good profit to be made. That
market exists (a.) in the Far East, especially
japan and Hong Kong, where traditional
ivory carving plus investment hoarding,
creates many buyers, (b.) in a number of Arab
countries, especially the United Arab Emir-
ates, where investment in ivory is considered
more profitable than banking the “petro-
dollars” earned from petroleum exports. It is
ironic that U. S. ships are today protecting
tankers of an industry which is contributing
substantially to the extermination of the

elephant, (c. and d.) West Europe and the
United States, the world’s major “consumers”
are also consuming a frightening volume
of ivory.

CITES: The endangered species treaty
is supposed to “control” trade in ivory It is
failing at this task. A few years ago, it became
evident that the ivory trade was so ramp-
ant that CITES decided to create a “grace
period” during which all “illegal ivory” could
be declared, and after this period, all ivory
was to be properly registered and controlled
by a quota system which permitted a limited
“harvest” of elephants in each African habitat
country.

The scheme was disastrous. It permitted
thousands of tons of ivory to be entered into
legal trade. At the most recent CITES meet-
ing, the West German delegate complained
that the CITES Secretariat had failed in its
mission, and had become “an instrument to
introduce illegal ivory!”

Analysis of recent trade records reveal
that “legal exports” account for only 22%
of the ivory in international trade. 78% is
contraband.

Solving The Problem

Protecting the African elephant from extinc-
tion will require a number of coordinated
efforts, including:

1. Habitat Countries: Countries which
protect their elephants need assistance. This
can take many forms, such as anti-poaching
help, diplomatic assistance, and even general
animal protection help.

At the CITES meeting, the Israeli dele-
gation discussed with the Kenyans the possi-
bility of bringing sophisticated Israeli security
apparatus (such as that used to screen luggage
being loaded on El Al jets) to the Kenya-
Burundi border to search for hidden ivory.
African countries meeting together agreed to
bring a strong measure of diplomatic pressure
on Burundi — reminding it that legitimizing
smuggling is tantamount to economic war-
fare. Friends of Animals is helping by
encouraging animal protection in Liberia, a
West African country which extends total
legal protection to all wild animals— includ-
ing, especially, its elephants. (See full story in

‘ next issue of Act’ionLine).

Working with habitat countries is not
enough, however, because some of them do
not appear to want reform. Some, such as
Central African Republic and Zaire are
setting high “legal quotas” for themselves at
the same time poachers are taking many
thousands of elephants from the same range.
The combination of “legal” and “illegal” ivory
is catastrophic for the elephants.

2. Ivory Importing Countries: Elephant
killing would stop if there was no place to sell
ivory. Both the US. Congress and the Euro-
pean Parliament are considering legislation
which would shut down the ivory trade in
their respective jurisdictions. Friends of Ani-
mals encourages this legislation and is work-
ing to see it passed.

There is little prospect for banning the
ivory trade in Japan or in the several Arab
states involved in the trade. But if the US. and
Europe withdrew from the ivory market, the
demand for ivory would be reduced, and thus
the price would fall. This, in turn, could
cause the ivory hoarders to reconsider their
investments.

(over)

' «at» "UK“.
. . ..;,.~...,,. 1-.
a .. K. rain

Photo: Peter Jackson (The World Wildlye Fund)

 




(continued)

3. CITES: The African elephant is pres-
ently on Appendix II ofCITES, which means
that because of its rarity, trade in the species
should be monitored. An effort could be
made to shift the species into Appendix I,
which would prohibit all commercial trade
in ivory. Given the politics of CITES this
attempt would probably fail, but it could start
putting the ivory dealers on the defensive.
And the effort could generate momentum

which would help passage of ivory bans in the
US. and Europe.

Conclusion

It is clear that the only way to save the
elephant in Africa is to end the ivory trade.
“Limited” and “quota system” schemes have
been unconscionably abused and, under their
auspices the elephant population of the
continent has been slashed by more than half.

It is obvious that the ivory trade cannot
be stopped everywhere. But it is equally
obvious that it can be stopped in some places
— both in some African habitat countries and
in some consumer countries. A legislated ban
on ivory trade should be initiated wherever
possible.

Also, African countries which want to
protect their elephants should be helped and
encouraged. Many of these countries are
quite poor, and do not have the resources to
organize extensive wildlife protection pro—
grams. People who want to protect elephants
can do so by helping legitimate and profes-
sional elephant protection programs which
need assistance.

It is also important that people cow:
cerned about elephants should not fall for the
exploiter’s nonsensical claims such as “ele—
phants must be culled because they are over-
grazing their habitat.” This is not true.
Elephants have lived in harmony with Africa

 

OnJuly 23, 1987, Rep. Anthony Beilenson
(D-Ca) introduced the “Elephant Protection
Act,” H.R. 2999. The bill calls for a ban on the
importation of all elephant products into the
US, as well as a ban on the exportation of
elephant products from the US. H.R. 2999 also
calls for the US. to “actively pursue a ban on the
international trade in elephant products.”

Please support this vital bill by doing the
following:
1) Write to Rep. Beilenson, thanking him for his
efforts to protect elephants. Ask him to maintain
his strong position and to not compromise his
original bill. I
2) Write to your Representative, urging co-
sponsorship of the bill and requesting that
hearings be held.
3) Write to Rep. Gerry Studds, Chairman ofthe
Subcommittee on Fisheries and Wildlife
Conservation and the Environment asking him
to hold hearings on the bill. Please also address
any members listed below from your state:
Gerry Studds (D-MA), Don Young (R-AK),
.Don Bonker (D-WA), Claudine Schneider

 

”an! WW“...-

BB(‘ WILDLIFE MAY 1988

Action-

_ .-—.....~_~ ...__»-c-u..-.~.~.

(R-RI), Roy P. Dyson (D—MD), Herbert H.
Bateman (R-VA), Thomas R. Carper (D-DE),
H. James Saxton (R-NJ), Douglas H. Boseo
(D-CA), John Miller (AR-WA), Lindsay
Thomas (D-GA), Mac Sweeney (R-TX),
Solomon P. Oritiz (D-TX), Joseph J Dio
Guardi (R—NY), ThomasJ. hianton (D—NY),
Curt Weldon (R-PA), Glenn M. Anderson (D-
CA), Patricia Saiki (R-Hl), WilliamJ. Hughes
(D-NJ), Wally Herger (R-CA), Mike Lowry
(D-WA), Jim Bunning (R-KY), Earl Hutto
(D-FL), W. J. Tauzin (D-LA), Dennis 1W.
Hertel (D-MI)

Address all Representatives: The
Honorable__.._, House of Representa-
tives, Washington, DC 20515.

Unfortunately, the World Wildlife Fund
and the US. Fish & Wildlife Service are lobbying
to weaken H.R. 2999, allowing instead selective
trading and imposing a dangerous “user tax” on
ivory products which would perpetuate the
poaching and pending extinction ofthe African
elephant. Alaskan Rep. Don Young (a trapper)
is endeavoring to weaken H.R. 2999.

 

3

an awful lot in the way of exper— lucrative._ and the animals them-

 

Biggest ﬁne yet for
misdeclared reptiles

 

aving a statute book full
of reasoned. detailed.
constantly updated laws

on the international wildlife
trade is all very well. but it asks

tise from one particular group of
laymen—the world’s Customs
officers. Many of them do try.
but they can easily be defeated
by an absence among them of
biology degrees.

And of all forms of the wildlife
trade. none is more difficult to
monitor than the one in live
reptiles (see BBC WILDLIFE.
October 1987). Smuggling can be

selves are usually easy to carry
and hard to identify. And while
mammals and birds are held up
under the quarantine regula—
tions. reptiles and amphibians
tend to turn up only when there
are spot checks.

Conservation groups some-
times try to help by issuing iden-
tification guides and pointing out
travellers that they have suspi-
cions about. and it is said to have
been this kind of assistance that
led recently to a dealer receiving

for millions of years, and it was only when
their ivory reached a value of $100 kilogram
(equal to more than a month’s wages) that
suddenly there developed all sorts of excuses
for butchering these elegant animals.

—Bz'll Clark

the highest penalty ever imposed
in Britain for reptile smuggling.
It was handed down on 23
March to Paul Sullivan. of Tor-
quay. Devon. who had pleaded
guilty to two offences. in
November 1986 at Gatwick and

Houston Post

13 Marc it“ 39'38

Goatherds fight poaching of black rhinos

JOHANNESBURG (Reuter) —
Ten nomadic goatherds, patrolling
a vast desert on donkeys, have
turned the tide for Namibia’s
threatened black rhinos.

Armed only with the khaki uni—
form of South Africa’s private En-
dangered Wildlife Trust, they have
virtually eliminated poaching in the
Damaraland and Kaokaland re-
gions of northwest Namibia.

“It is a terribly dry and harsh
region, but these men know their
way around. They know the peo-
ple, and they can find tracks where
no white man would see the faint-
est sign of poachers,” said the
Trllist’s spokeswoman, Petra Men—
ge.

Sponsored by a local uranium
mine, the 10 former goatherds pa-

trol an area of over 80,000 square
miles against rhino hunters.

Their equipment is limited to a
bedroll, a water bottle and a pair of
binoculars.

The guards are away from home
for days at a time. Though they
have no authority to arrest poach-
ers, their tracking skills allow them
to follow the tracks of hunters who
are then reported to official game
rangers.

Rhino horns, prized in the Far
East as an aphrodisiac and in North
Yemen for knife handles, can fetch
up to $2,000 a pound, said the
Trust’s environmentalist, Dr. John
Ledgen

He said the black rhino popula—
tion in the region, one of the last

true wilderness regions of Africa
that is not a proclaimed nature re-
serve, had dwindled sharply.

“Now we know that there are at
least 100, many of them with ba—
bies,” Ledger said. “The tide has

been turned by the auxiliary game .

guards.”

He said the black rhino — which
is distinguished from the grazing
white rhino by a pointed upper lip
— was among the most threatened
species in Africa.

“We estimate there were about
60,000 black rhino in Africa south
of the Sahara in 1980. Now there
are about 3,700 left, most of them
in southern Africa, where they are
still being poached for their horns,”
Ledger said.

 

in March 1987 at Heathrow. of
misdeclaring reptiles. He was
fined a total of £2500. with £175
costs. Lizards and snakes with a
probable retail value of £8000
were confiscated.

Sullivan, who is well known
among herpetologists. has been
dealing in reptiles for several
years. and though there is
nothing necessarily illegal in this.
conservationists are not neces—
sarily saddened by the possibility
that his conviction might affect
his business.

As for Customs. there have
been a few long-standing sugges-
tions for improvements in
strategy. One is that there should
be only a few, specialised ports of
entry for reptiles and amphi-
bians. and another is that
imports of a few animals deemed
suitable as pets should be permit-
ted. and everything else banned.

As it is. the increasing interest
in keeping reptiles has created a
demand from wealthy collectors
prepared to pay large sums for
rare or hard-to-get species.

 




 

SCIENCE I There’s more to
elephant communication than
meets the human ear

Not just
blowing their
own horns

I Birds do it. Bees do it. Even monkeys
in the trees do it. Now it appears that
elephants, too, maintain a complex so-
cial order by talking to each other—but
in voices so low-pitched that humans
usually cannot hear them. ‘

While most people’s idea of elephant
elocution might be the resounding trum-
pet calls that shake the trees in Tarzan
movies, Katharine Payne of Cornell Uni-
versity found that elephants keep in
touch with one another through more-
subtle vocalizations. A recent study by
Payne and animal researchers Joyce
Poole, William Langbauer, Jr., and-Cyn-
thia Moss suggests that elephants ex-
change greetings, signal their readiness
for mating and organize groups to mi-
grate by calling out in a basso rumble
that is below the range of human hearing.

Payne discovered the sounds after she
felt the air throbbing during a chance visit
to the Washington Park Zoo in Portland,
Oreg. Suspecting the vibrations may have
been generated by the elephants, Payne—
who studied the vocalizations of whales
for 17 years—returned to the zoo and
tape-recorded what appeared to be hours
of silence. But when she sped up the tape,
hundreds of elephant calls came out.

Low-pitched sounds are well suited to
elephantine communication needs. Just as
the bass player in a rock band often can be
heard from a distance even though the
sounds of the other instruments have died

 

WI

U.S.NEWS & WORLD REPORT, May 9, 1988

out, a low-frequency call from an elephant
may carry far enough to be heard by other
elephants several miles away. The calls
help fertile females attract mates, mothers
locate their young, and aggressive males
avoid crossing each other’s paths. They
may also allow widely dispersed herds to
coordinate their movements.

Elephant ESP. Since the calls go un-
heard by humans, the sounds might also
explain what was sometimes referred to
by old naturalists as “elephant ESP”:
Groups of elephants suddenly start mov-
ing in a particular direction without ap-
parent reason. Low-frequency sound
may even be behind the uncanny ability
of elephants to start migrating to distant
parts of their territory soon after the
rainy season has begun there—thunder
also produces low-frequency sounds.

Elephants aren’t the only animals
whose calls have more meaning than
might be apparent. The gentle trill of a
bird song, for example, is in fact part of
an ongoing battle between the singer and
other birds that covet its territory, says
Eugene Morton, an ornithologist at the
National Zoo in Washington, DC. Male
birds sing to attract mates, but other
males listen to the song to judge how far
away the singer is—and whether he is
encroaching on their territory. A bird’s
song may be pretty to humans, says Mor-
ton, “but to another male bird, it’s more
like the sound of incoming mortar.”

Sea gulls are even more subtle in their
communication: They lie. A gull that

Spots food will sometimes cry out with a

danger call—causing surrounding gulls
to, hesitate for a split second while the
caller dives in to grab its prey.

It is probably just as well that our ears
miss out on a lot of animal gossip—
ranging from the low-pitched grunts of
grouse to the squeaks of shrews and bats.
Says Morton: “If human hearing was as
good as that of many other animals, our
world would be a much noisier place.” I

 

by William F. Allman

 

THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR

#5439139 '~ ' W1

MAY

m 4ng

 

 

In 1986 alone, 8 5 ton of tucks yielded $500 million of carved ivory. Elephant toll: 71,000

The last trump of the elephant?

By Bunny McBride
Special to The Christian Science Monitor
Y cabin stood beside a water pool,
and each morning I awoke to the
sound of an elephant family snorting
and spraying and splashing. During my sev—
eral—week stay, Tanzania’s Lake Manyara Na—
tional Park was fairly replete with elephants:
some on the move, others standing on their
hind legs feeding on high acacia branches,
others camouﬂaged by tree shadows and
looking like so many boulders.

One night a young bull faced off with our
Land Rover in the middle of the road. We
stopped and turned off the engine and lights.
The huge black specter walked toward us,
knocking his tusks against the vehicle as he
glided the tip of his snout over the hood and
windshield. The sound of his heavy, hollow
breathing ﬁlled the air. Suddenly, he turned

and pounded down the road in front of us.

That was in 1983. On a return trip to
Manyara in March, I expected similar close
encounters. There were none. In fact, I saw
but a handful of elephants, always in the
distance. The population had dropped from
485 to 181 - just in the last two years.

The African elephant may become a mem—
ory before this century closes.

Studies show devastation on the order of

, 50 percent throughout the continent in only

10 years, as the ivory trade thrives in the
shadow of corruption and upheaval. But a
plan is taking shape that would do for the
elephant what was done for the whale.
'Ibday marks the start of the “Year of the
Elephant,” a campaign to educate Americans
(who purchase 30 percent of the world’s
carved ivory) about the elephant’s plight.

(over)

 




 

(continued)

‘ “At least 80 percent of ivory on the
market today comes from poached ele-
phants - even if it comes with all the
correct papers certifying it as legal,” says
researcher Cynthia Moss, author of a cap-
tivating new book, “Elephant Memories.”
Ms. Moss, who spent the last 20 years in
East Africa studying elephant behavior,
is a senior research adviser to the African
Wildlife Ibundation (AWF), and was on
hand at the National Zoo in Washington,
DC, yesterday to help launch the foun-
dation’s Year of the Elephant project.

The campaign is a direct response to
the ﬁndings of a new study by the well-
known elephant specialist, Lain Douglas—
Hamilton, for whom Moss worked as a -
research assistant when she ﬁrst went to
East Africa The study focuses on ele-
phants in Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda,
where the numbers plunged from 253,947
to 108,615 between 1977 and 1987.

“The ﬁgures are devastating,” says
AWF’s vice—president, Diana McMeekin.
“The working estimate is that there are
now 700,000 elephants on the continent,
compared with 1.5 million 10 years ago.”
David Western, chairman of the Elephant
and Rhino Specialist Group at the Inter-
national Union for Conservation of Na-
ture and Natural Resources (IUCN), says
Mr. Douglas-Hamilton has shocked people
“who didn’t want to believe that the
oﬁtak'e was so great in Kenya.” The'sur-
vey showed that in Kenya, whose second-
largest industry is wildlife tourism, the
elephant population dropped 57 percent
in protected areas and 73 percent in un-
protected areas during the last 10 years.

While drought and human encroach-
ment on elephant habitat have contrib-
uted to the creature’s demise, the ivory
trade is the most acute threat. The IUCN
reports that 825 tons of raw ivory, with a
market value of $50 million, were traded
in 1986. The raw ivory, sold mainly in
Asia, was converted into carved ivory
worth about $500 million on the world

Oryx Vol 22 No 2. April 1988

World’s most southerly
elephants protected

After many years of delay the South

 

 

      

A. ...

Average tuck size dropped from 21
market. The death toll among elephants
for the trade: 89,000 — at least 80 percent
(71,200) of them poached.

So many adult elephants have been
killed in recent years that the average
tusk size has dropped from 21 pounds in
the mid-19703 to 12% pounds today. ,
Numbers don’t tell the full story. “Fifty-
ﬁve percent of elephants shot are repro-
ductive females,” says Mr. Western. Moss
says this hampers the survival skills of
the remaining population. “Elephant
know-how is passed on primarily through
teaching, not instinct. The slaying of ma-
ture females for their larger tusks de-
stroys the respository of knowledge
about such things as migratory routes,
water sources, and mothering skills.”

All but three ofthe 31 East Africa
elephant habitats Douglas-Hamilton sur-
veyed aerially showed vast declines. The
few protected areas that showed in-
creases are in Kenya and include the Ma-
sai Mara Reserve, Marsabit National Re-
serve, and Amboseili National Park,
where Moss led the Amboseili Elephant
Research Project for more than 12 years.
One of the most startling declines oc-

African Government has at last agreed
to give the go-ahead to a campaign to
save the Knysna elephants—the
world’s southernmost wild elephants.

    

pounds to 12% due to killing 0

(it I}. I: .:\.'.' ._.; .
NOILVUNnO$ 35l101lM NVOIHdV/OWQUNI" NSAS @'

 
 
   

$5:
to

.- ,‘2' . «it-5'
Mas-a?“ / J

du ' elephants

curred in Tanzania’s Lake Manyara Na-
tional Park, where both Moss and Doug-
las-Hamilton spent time studying
elephants, and where my own encounter
with the night stalker occurred.

“1 ﬁnd the drop in Manyara particu-
larly sad and startling,” says Moss, “not
only because I knew those elephants by
name, but because the park is small and
very manageable in terms of its layout
and its high tourism. If elephants can’t be
protected there, where can they be. ” She
speculates that the poaching in Manyara
is happening at night and “within the
system” — suggesting that rangers and
ofﬁcials are involved in some way.

Conservationists agree that in the 36
African nations with elephant popula—
tions, park managers can be part of the
poaching problem rather than the solu- .
tion. “Wardens and rangers are pitifully
underpaid and underequipped,” Moss
writes. “When the price of tusks is equiv-
alent to an oﬂicer’s yearly salary, the
temptation to poach is overwhelming.”

Unfortunately, the temptation is grow-
ing - right alongside increasing ivory
prices. In 1960, ivory sold at about $2.35

 

There are only three left—a bull, a cow
and a calf—and it is proposed to fence
a sanctuary area {Or them and to intro-
duce three young elephants from

a pound. By 1978, it had climbed to $35,
and this year it soared to $68. Says the
AWF’s McMeekin: “Ivory is increasingly
being purchased as a hedge against inﬂa-
tion, saved against the day it is no longer
in supply and prices hit the sky.”

Civil wars in Uganda, the Central Afri-
can Republic, Sudan, and Somalia have
compounded the poaching problem. “Not
only are more automatic weapons readily
available to facilitate poaching,” says
McMeekin, “but in the turmoil of war,
civil systems have broken down and law
enforcement is lax.”

IUCN is now forming a special commis-
sion to review all aspects of ivory trade.
Regulation options include (1) revising
the current unveriﬁable quota system,
asking each nation to determine how
much ivory it can afford to export with-
out threatening the its elephant popula-
tion; (2) setting a minimum tusk size;

(3) establishing management systems
such as those in South Africa and
Zimbabwe, where “elephants are con-
trolled like herds of cows - they’re culled
to keep them at a sustainable level, and
limited hunting is allowed,” says
McMeekin; (4) identifying a benchmark
population of some 200 elephants in var-
ious habitats, and pouring resources into
the protection of them, rather than trying
to oversee every corner of elephant coun-
try; and (5) encouraging external sanc-
tions from countries that import ivory.

While respecting the rights of African
nations to make their own decisions about
use of their resources, Moss sees ele-
phants as an international treasure, and
hopes to prod people beyond Africa to do
their part to ensure the survival of the
species. “Developed countries could help
African conservation areas by contribut-
ing far more to their maintenance,” she
says. In addition, Moss says she “would
like to see a temporary moratorium on
buying ivory by the American market —
until the time comes when one can be sure
that the tusk is either from an elephant
killed legally, or one that has died of
natural causes.”

another area to rebuild the herd.
Our Living World, Supplement to
Weekend Argus, 5 September 1987.

 




The Committee is the
leg/s/at/ve arm of
Friends of Anima/s
conducting pub/[c
action to protect
an/ma/s.

Leslie Fain,
Legislative Director

Priscilla Feral,
Executive Director

Suite 800
400 First Street NW
Washington, DC. 20001

National Headquarters
Friends of Animals

PO. Box 1244

Norwalk, Connecticut06856

(202) 393-3647

 

Committee
for

H umane
Legislation

9IIE5_l1QBI_QQNIBQL_§1£IEM_EA§I_EBEEI.

CITES,‘the Convention on Trade in Endangered Species
has been in effect since July 1, 1975. Currently more than
90 countries are parties to CITES. CITES applies to the
import, export or reexport of living animals and plants and
their readily recognizable parts.

Species may be listed on one of three appendices. An
Appendix I listing affords the greatest protection for a
species by prohibiting trade in species which are
threatened with extinction due to trade. An Appendix II
listing allows trade in the species which face the
possibility of being threatened with extinction due to
trade if the trade continues unrestricted.

Because of the unique properties of ivory (it is not
a whole animal only a tooth) there is no way it can be
identified as to country of origin or the numbers of
elephants involved.

IﬂE_Q1IEE.11QEX.QQHIRQL_£X§IEH

There were 1.2 million elephants in Africa in 1980,
today there are 700,000. African elephants are listed on
Appendix II of CITES (Asian elephants are listed on
Appendix I) and their numbers continue to plummet as they
are poached for the ivory trade. Trade in ivory is
theoretically controlled by the CITES Ivory Control
System. The system is based on the assumption that the
trade can be controlled. Despite the ivory control system
80% of the trade in ivory is illegal.

The Ivory Control System was first created in 1985 at
the Conference of the Parties meeting in Buenos Aries,
although CITES has been fighting the problem of illegal
ivory for a decade. The system allows countries to set
quotas for the amount of ivory to be exported from that
country. The quotas do not need to be based on scientific
or biological data.

For example, the country of Sudan has a quota of
21,500 tusks. Yet the number of elephants in Sudan was
only 26,600 in 1985 -— down from 134,000 in 1976. This
quota obviously includes ivory from elephants killed
outside of the Sudan.

Through the CITES Ivory Control System the tusks of
tens of thousands of illegally killed elephants have been
legally introduced into international trade. CITES appears

 




unwilling to impose tight controls, and every time CITES amends
its policies to control one type of illegal trade, the ivory
dealers invent a new technique to get around an intrinsically

weak regulatory mechanism. Forged export documents are common-
place.

Ivory dealers are extremely competent in obscuring the
origins and the methods of obtaining ivory to subvert the quota
system. It is virtually impossible to distinguish between
"legal" and illegal" raw ivory. It is impossible to distinguish
"legal" worked ivory from "illegal."

Since only raw ivory is covered under the quota system an
easy way to subvert the system is to carve the tusk to meet the
minimum requirements for worked ivory. This "worked" ivory is no
longer required to have the CITES documents when being shipped
into Hong Kong. Once the ivory is reworked in Hong Kong any
country can be listed as the country of origin when the re—worked

ivory is shipped out of Hong Kong, in the form of trinkets, to
the United States.

There are currently 66 ivory carvers in Dubia in the duty
free zone who were sent from Hong Kong specifically to carve the
ivory to meet the minimum requirements. The huge profits made in
the ivory trade are made in Hong Kong not Africa.

INFRACTIONS OF THE IVORY CONTROL SYSTEM (From the Secretariats
"Review of Alleged Infractions"):

*** Shipments totaling more than 19 tons of raw ivory (4,394
tusks or 2,197 dead elephants) were shipped from Macau and
Singapore illegally to China and there confiscated, only to be
declared "legal" through a CITES loophole (Conf. 5.12), and no
legal action taken against the dealers.

*** 1,889 raw ivory tusks (945 dead elephants) arrive in January
1986 in Antwerp, Belgium, in containers labelled "bees-wax".
Belgian authorities unable to identify traders, no action taken
against shipping agents.

*** May 1986, more than 17 tons of raw ivory airfreighted from
Somalia to Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, without
documentation. Somalia confirmed the shipment was illegal, but
has not provided any details of its investigation to CITES.

*** At least ten Tanzanian export permits have been identified as
fraudulent. Two of them were declared valid .by the CITES
Secretariat after receiving a putative telex from the Tanzanian
CITES authorities. These telexes were subsequently proven also
to be fraudulent. They also indicate the degree of
sophistication of the ivory smugglers.

 




*** Large quantities of illegal ivory were reported to have
entered Macau, and Singapore. Large quantities of illegal ivory
were reported to have been exported from Burundi.

CONCLUSIONS:

The CITES ivory quota system does not work. Through the
loopholes built into this system the tusks of tens of thousands
of illegally killed elephants have been "legally" introduced into
international trade.

Enforcement of CITES ivory regulations is difficult. The
United Kingdom, for example, has legal problems defining what is
legal "recognizable" ivory. Is a small white statue ivory? Does
a government have the right to scratch an art work for a sample
to determine its constitution? These questions are bedeviling
British customs officials.

CITES has no authority or influence over two major factors
contributing to the decimation of elephants -- the use of
automatic weapons and military instability.

With the drastic decline of the African Elephant there is
no time to "let CITES work." Trade must be stopped now to allow
the populations to increase and let the species recover from the
massive slaughter. A healthy old elephant population will
provide far more ivory through natural mortality than is

currently available from the devastated populations throughout
Africa.

Until CITES lists the African elephant on Appendix I it is
incumbent upon importing countries to protect elephants by
prohibiting the importation of. ivory. The U.S. imports the
equivalent of 25,000 dead elephants each year. We are also the
most influential member of CITES. The U.S. must take strong
action now to help prevent the extinction of the African elephant
by banning the importation of ivory and working for an Appendix I
listing at the next CITES Conference of the Parties.

 




A Report on the Elephant Crisis
at the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species of
Wild Flora and Fauna Meeting
in Ottawa, Ontario, July 12-24, 1987

 

Norman Myers/WWF

Credit

Reprinted from The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly, Fall 1987.

 

 

 

 




: CITES ' CONVENTION 0N INTERNATIONALTRADEINENDANGEREDSPECIES : CITES CONVENTION 0N INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGEREDSPECIES . - CITES

IVORY TRADERS POACHING ELEPHANT S TO EXTINCTION FO

W

IVORY: Secretariat
snared by Burundi

Burundi has long been known as an
entrepot state through which illegal ivory
is habitually channelled. At the 1985
CITES meeting in Buenos Aires, the
Parties passed the now notorious reso-
lution 5.12 which was intended to put
an end to international trade in un-
identiﬁed ivory by setting quotas and
requiring the marking of tusks with
punch dies. The Secretariat tried to per-
suade Burundi to join CITES and
seemingly thought this basic goal had
been achieved by interpreting resolu-
tion 5.12 to mean that Burundi’s stock-
pile of illegal ivory was ipso facto
amnestied.

But Burundi, once it had gained its
own ends, the selling off of this ivory,
refused to join. It no longer even both—
ers to answer letters from the CITES
Secretariat. In taking its ill-advised ac-
tion, the Secretariat failed to seek the
advice of its overseers, the CITES
Standing Committee, a point brought
home in no uncertain terms by West
Germany in both Plenary and Manage-
ment Committee sessions. Informed
sources report that the Secretariat’s
decision made millionaires of two or
three people.

The Secretariat’s account of this dis-
aster states in part, “The President of
Burundi instructed his Government to
establish full and proper CITES con—
trols on the ivory trade. The Burundi
Government made a formal commit-
ment in writing to that effect, and sub-
sequently, the existing stock of ivory
was registered, marked, and re-ex-
ported.” Later, however, “a shipment
of about 26 tons was re-exported by
air, from Bujumbura to Singapore, via
Oman.”

Mbaele Mankoto, head of Zaire’s
delegation made an impassioned state-
ment in support of Germany’s chal—
lenge to the Secretariat to explain how
resolution 5.12 had been used to intro-
duce Burundi’s illegal ivory into
“legal” international trade again.
Mankoto said this was the most impor-

tant part of the Ottawa conference. He
decried the legalizing of 91 tons of
ivory and suggested that the Secreta-
riat’s talks with Burundi had been
“carried out rather hastily . . . The

proof of this is that Burundi is not
here . . . The bird has flown. So traf—
fickers were favored and Parties were
penalized.”

M baele
M anhoto,
head of
Zaire ’s
delegation

Mankoto spoke repeatedly of the ele—
phants themselves, characterizing them
as “those who are absent . . . We
should not forget that elephant popu-
lations are decreasing every day, mean-
while illegal trade continues at a gal—
lop. I put forward the idea ofa five-
year moratorium, but was told it was
utopian because of investments.” He
spoke of “gangsters like Al Capone”
and warned that what is called utopian
today will not be utopian soon.

The Tanzanian delegation wanted to
know what kind of measures the Secre-
tariat took to see that Burundi did not
double cross them. The Zambian dele-
gate said his country banned hunting
in 1982, but the decline in elephant
numbers continues.

IVORY: Wrongdoers
nailed by resolution

Dean of the African delegations, Perez
Olindo, ﬁrst referred to the plundering
of the elephants as “economic war-
fare” when the lengthy discussion of
CITES resolutions on the ivory trade
began. Olindo, who played an impor-
tant role in the drafting of the Conven—
tion itself at the 1973 Washington
meeting of 91 nations, is now Director

 

Ivory poachers
decimate elephan
populations

African elephant populations are

still plunging. A new and immensely
depressing report* by Iain Douglas-
Hamilton and Anne Burrill tells of
catastrophic declines across most of

the continent brought about by the huge
illicit trade in ivory.

Poachers show little respect for national
parks; indeed they often kill the guards as
well as the elephants. A table of regional East
African trends, giving a sample of 10 Kenyan
districts that lack protection for elephants,
shows a decline of 91% between 1973 and
1987! In nine so—called protected areas the
decline was 72% during the same period. The
Ugandan sample combining protected and
unprotected areas gives 89%; estimated loss in
Somalia is 94% over 15 years, and in Sudan
77% in 10 years.

The report notes that in Southern African
countries with little poaching elephant num-
bers are increasing by 0.7% a year; but in the

annual decline is 8.2%. It states: “Trend data
for the rest of Africa were fragmentary, but in
the northern savannahs elephants were mainly
decreasing in a band across the continent from
Somalia to Senegal, with a weighted mean of
minus 17.8% per annum.”

An appendix to the report by R.F.VV. Barnes
entitled A Review of the Status of Ele—

 

i'hav‘e done for centuries, or for protection of

heavily poached countries of the region the

 

phants in the Rain Forests

, of Central Africa contradicts

conventional explanations

of this appalling carnage.

Barnes notes, “In general

human densities and rates of

population growth are low in

the African rain forests. In

addition, there is a drift of

people to the towns, so the

rural population may even be

declining.” However, “the in-

creased availability of firearms and

improvements in roads have made poach-

ing easier. There are now large areas of forest

in Cameroon, Congo and Zaire where ele-

phants are no longer found. ” Commenting-on.
“recent reports of very heavy hunting, ”Barnes. ;

says that “some of this is done by pygmies who.

are being commissioned to hunt for ivory with

heavy riﬂes. ”
Killing of elephants for meat, as pygmies

crops has little eﬂect on elephant populations.
Ivory poaching is the overriding cause of the
alarming collapse in numbers.

Who benefits ﬁom this massacre? The report
limits itself to presentation of data and trends
resulting from the illicit poaching, smuggling
and intense pressures exerted by this criminal
activity. However; African delegates to the
CITES meeting did not hesitate to single out
some of the chief villains (see main story).

*African Elephant Database Project, Global Re—
source Information Database, Nairobi, June
1987

 

 

of Kenya’s Wildlife Conservation and Man-
agement Department.

“Our people are dying at the hands of
poachers.” said Olindo during debate in the
CITES Management Committee.“The attack
on elephants and rhinos is an economic
attack. Kenya feels that most of its illicit ivory
goes in petrol tanks to Burundi. As a land-
locked state, Burundi’s viability depends on
its neighbors. An economic war can only be
reciprocated.

“Burundi was a friend of CITES then went
underground again. The reason is known
only to Burundi and other perpetrators of
the illicit trade. The United Arab Emirates is
in the process of denouncing CITES. There
is no alternative but to denounce the United

Perez Olindo,
head of
Kenya’s
delegation

Arab Emirates, and we appeal to the media
to convey this message by the fastest means
possible.”

Malawi and Somalia did their best to
undermine the formal recommendation “that

Cathy Liss

the Wang
connection

A recent article (18 June) in New Scientist
quotes Ian Parker as saying that in
Burundi there are two Chinese dealers,
Mr. Wang and Mr. Poon, who not only
operate outside CITES’ regulations but
also would “like to get CITES discred—
ited.”

This is not the first time that the
name Wang has surfaced. Back in 1979
when the US House of Representatives
passed a bill to ban the bulk of ivory
shipments and to provide aid to African
countries in protecting elephants
against the ivory dealers and their min-
ions, Martin Howell, Chief Counsel of
the committee that approved the legis-

-llation,' travelled to Africa, Asia, and

THEIR TUSKS

Europe in order to obtain firsthand
information on the ivory trade.

In Antwerp he saw the largest single
collection of tusks, 80 tons of them.
The owner, Mr. K.T. Wang, when
reached by phone in Paris, at ﬁrst
refused to allow Howell to visit the
warehouse. Only when told that

Howell would report to the Congres—
sional Committee that he was ex-
cluded, did Wang relent. Becoming
interested in the US legislation he vol-
unteered: “There should be exceptions
for countries that have good elephant
programs, like the Central African
Empire.”

According to Mr. Wang, he traded
with La Couronne, a company associ-
ate with ex-Emperor Bokassa. The con-
tents of the storehouse included ivory
held in bond for a Greek trader in
prison in Zambia.

\

 

 

WEN.
. .. g, ,4
NW“ \..

IVORY: elephantine
infractions

Several infractions were reported by
the Secretariat. Two of the more nota-
ble were: “B4) In January 1986, Bel-
gium seized 1889 raw ivory tusks
weighing 9577 Kg in two 20—foot con—
tainers which had arrived at Antwerp
by sea. The consignments had been
declared as bees-wax and did not have
CITES documents.” The report con—
tinued that Belgium was “unable to
take action against the traders since
the shipment had been handled
throughout by apparently innocent

agents acting in good faith and the rel-
evant papers did not identify those
responsible. The Secretariat has not
been informed how Belgium will dis—
pose of the ivory.

“F20) At least 110 Tanzanian export
permits . . . were found to have been
altered . . . Destinations were Belgium,
Japan, Singapore and the United Arab
Emirates. In early 1986 Belgium iden-
tiﬁed five of these permits with similar
types of apparent alterations, all des—
tined to enter Belgium via the same
transit agent. Tanzania confirmed that
the alterations were fraudulent.” How—
ever, two had already been declared by
the Secretariat to be valid on the basis
of a telex which itself was later discov—
ered to be fraudulent!

 

Parties use all possible means (includ-
ing economic, diplomatic and politi—
cal) to exert pressure on countries con—
tinuing to allow illegal trade in ivory, in
particular Burundi and the United
Arab Emirates (UAE), to take the nec-
essary action to prohibit such trade
and to become or remain Parties to
CITES.” Somalia proposed to remove
the words “exert pressure” and replace
them with “persuade” and to strike out
“economic, diplomatic and political”
means. But Olindo, citing the violence

of the wildlife criminals, responded,
“There is no persuasion in this mat—
ter.”

Somalia’s sabotaging efforts are ex—
plained by a section in the Secretariat’s
Infractions Report: “In May 1986 17,050
Kilogram of raw African elephant ivory
was air freighted from Mogadishu,
Somalia to Abu Dhabi, United Arab
Emirates (UAE). No CITES documents
or export permits accompanied the
shipment. Somalia confirmed that the

continued on page 13

 




CITES;_’--‘TCONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES . CITES

 

IVORY: wrongdoers nailed by resolution continued from page 11

ivory was exported illegally and that an
investigation had been initiated. The
results of this investigation are un—
known to the Secretariat. The Secreta-
riat sent full details of this case to (UAE.
UAE did not respond at all.”

Kenya and Tanzania, having suf-
fered the plundering of their elephants,
Spoke Strongly against the entrepot
countries through which huge quan-
tities of poached ivory are being thrown
onto the international market. Clark
Bavin, head of Law Enforcement for
the US Fish and Wildlife Service, sup—
ported them. “We must work together
to save the African elephant so it does
not become endangered or, even worse,
extinct. Traders are Stealing from the
African people. The United States will
initiate diplomatic discussions with the
United Arab Emirates. We are pre-
pared to use economic and political
means.” He asked that other countries
do the same. He also urged that
countries notify the Secretariat about
convicted illegal dealers and persistent
offenders. After some debate, it was
agreed that rewards should be offered
for the apprehension of violators. Tan—
zania Stated that a reward system was
in operation in their country, and the
United States Strongly endorsed this
approach.

Despite a full day of sometimes
heated discussion the Subcommittee
Chairman from Malawi offered weak-
ening amendments to his own report
to the full committee. He was sup-
ported by the japanese delegates who
were equally eager to remove any ref—

erence to the need for eco-
nomic and political pres—
sure on Burundi and the
United Arab Emirates. Tan-
zania fought back joined by
Kenya and Liberia, while
Esmond Bradley Martin,
speaking for the Interna—
tional Union for the Con-
servation of Nature, Stated,
“UAE has been importing
large quantities of illegal
ivory, and the Secretariat
confirmed that a few min-
utes ago.” The delegate from
Zimbabwe also supported
Tanzania and urged that the
text of the working groups
be retained. “It is our peo—
ple that are dying. It iS our
countries that are being
plundered,” he said.

In view of the clear con—
sensus, Malawi was asked to
withdraw its amendments
and reluctantly consented. japan’s del—
egation saw there was no chance of win-
ning this issue so they said they would
not block the consensus but were not—
ing for the record that japan wished to
delete any reference to economic and
political measures against Burundi and
UAE. japan also objected Strongly to
registration of ivory dealers within their
country. The representative of japan’s
Ministry of Industry and Trade claimed
flatly that “japan has no illegal trade.”
“Registration,” he said, “is too extreme
for japan.” However, he finally agreed
to a register of exporters and importers.

Twin baby elephants shelter beneath their mother.

Abetted by Hong Kong, japan suc-
ceeded in raising the Secretariat’s rec—
ommendation for marking any piece of
raw ivory of 1/2 kilo and 20 cm in length,
to a whole kilo. This was the most seri-
ous weakening obtained by the ivory
trade.

The impact of the several resolutions
on African elephants remains to be
seen. At the very least, a solid basis for
action by each of the 92 nations who
are parties to CITES has been laid by
the recognition that the illegal ivory
trade, unless drastically curbed, will
destroy the African elephant.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

Cynthia Moss

 




Copyright O 1988 Kyodo News Service

JUNE 3, 1988, FRIDAY

ggﬁfLégE: IAHERNATIONAL NHALING COMMISSION (INC) TO FORM BODY ON JAPAN‘SCOASTAL

SOURCE: INTERNATIONAL NHALING COMMISSION (INC)

DATELINE: TOKYO, JUNE 3

 

BODY: .
THE INTERNATIONAL NHALINE COMMISSION (INC), AT ITS 40TH ANNUAL SESSION HELD
IN AUCKLAND, NEN ZEALAND, MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY THIS NEEK, DECIDED TO SET UP A
MORNING BODY TO STUDY JAPAN'S PLEA FOR A CONTINUATION OF ITS COASTAL NHALINS,
FISHERIES AGENCY OFFICIALS SAID.

THE BODY NILL SOUND OUT THE INC MEMBER NATIONS ON THE MATTER BY THE END OF
NEXT MONTH. '

BUT UNDER HEAVY INTERNATIONAL PRESSURE FOR A TOTAL HALT COMMERCIAL NHALING,

THE POSSIBILITY IS SLIM THAT THE JAPANESE PLEA NILL BE ACCEPTED, FISHERY
INDUSTRY SOURCES SAID. ‘ '

ANOTHER CONTROVERSIAL ISSUE -- JAPAN’S ‘RESEARCH‘ NHALING IN THE ANTACTIC
OCEAN -- DID NOT COME UP FOR DISCUSSION AT THE AUCKLAND SESSION, BECAUSE
JAPAN‘S REPORT ON PRELIMINARY RESEARCH NHALING EARLY THIS YEAR NAS NOT READY
IN TIME FOR THE MEETING. ‘

THE REPORT NILL BE SUBMITTED TO THE INC'S SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE THIS SUMMER OR
LATER.

““BUT THE OWEICIALSXADMIWTED THEWPOSSIBILITY THAT IUAPAN ANILL_BE ASKED TO
REFRAIN FROM 'RESEARCH’ NHALING, IN VIEN OF VIGOROUS ANTI-NHALING DRIVES BY THE
UNITED STATES AND EUROPEAN NATIONS.

JAPAN CAUGHT 273 MINKE NHALES IN THE ANTARCTIC OCEAN EARLY THIS YEAR AS

PART OF A PRELIMINARY SURVEY IN ACCORDANCE NITH THE INC'S EARLIER DECISION TO
REEXAMINE‘ NHALE STOCKS BY 1990 AND REVIEN ITS ONGOING MORATORIUM ON COMMERCIAL

NHALING.

AT THE AUCKLAND MEETING, THE INC AGREED TO ALLON JAPANESE COASTAL FISHERMEN

TO CONTINUE CATCH LESSER NHALES, SUCH AS PILOT NHALES, BUT DECIDED TO FORM A
NORKING BODY TO STUDY NHETHER TO PERMIT CONTINUED HUNTING FOR MINKE NHALES.

THE BODY NILL NOT COME UP NITH A CONCLUSION UNTIL AUGUST AT THE EARLIEST.
AND NO INTERIM CATCH OUOTA NAS SET FOR THE INTERVENING PERIOD.

JAPAN. ASSERTED THAT JAPANESE COASTAL FISHERMEN SHOULD BE GRANTED THE SAME

PRIVILEGE OF TRADITIONAL NHALING ‘FOR SUBSISTENCE‘ THAT IS ACCORDED COASTAL
NATIVES IN SUCH COUNTRIES AS THE U.S., THE SOVIET UNION AND DENMARK EVEN UNDER

THE CURRENT MORATORIUM.

 




WEEKLY BULLETIN, JUNE 6, 1988

. . ' .
.. , . ...,-_- ., \ ,, .._..
i ' '. ‘4 ~.. n '3“, . r . - ‘ t ». w A

; . ‘ . . . ‘
.' ‘ , - " '-_«- .’

. h-. .- : h»..- ._- ‘

- . . ,1‘ “‘7 1:"

‘ v - . ‘ _ . _. .' ‘.
' ' ’ .' ' ‘ . u, . ..._ ‘ ‘ . i. - ,. ,

”N“. ﬂaws}, not: w

 

 

Global environment

 

Elephant, rhino
protection efforts

House Merchant Marine and House
Science subcommittees are planning
hearings late this month on the protection
of elephant and rhinoceros populations.

Merchant Marine’s Subcommittee
on Fisheries and Wildlife Conservation
and the Environment plans a legislative
hearing on elephant protection. Science’s
Natural Resources, Agriculture Research

, and Environment Subcommittee will»
’ conduct an oversight hearing on rhinoc-
eros protection.

Both meetings are set for June 22.
The hearings are scheduled for the same
day to give both subcommittees the op-
portunity to hear from some of the same
witnesses, including the director of
Kenya’s wildlife conservation and man-
agement program.

Elephants: The ﬁsheries and wild-
life subcommittee plans to ask witnesses
to comment on the Elephant Protection
Act (HR 2999) introduced by Rep. An-
thony C. Beilenson (D-Calif.), as well as
on a staff draft.

Beilenson’s bill would require the
president to propose to the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Spe-
cies that all trade in elephant products by
member nations be suspended until data
demonstrate that large and healthy ele-
phant populations were re-established
and stable over large geographic areas.
CITES is the international treaty regulat-
ing trade in endangered species.

Beilenson’s bill sets civil penalties
for trading in elephant products during the
trade suspension and enumerates enforce-
ment mechanisms.

The Merchant Marine staff draft
would require the Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice to solicit information on elephant
protection programs in African nations
and ban the importation of ivory products
from nations with plans deemed to be
inadequate. The draft also would ban
ivory imports from intermediary coun-

 

 

tries accepting trade from nations without
adequate plans. In addition, a taX on ele-
phant products would be levied that
would be directed toward elephant con-
servation programs in Africa

Rhinos: Science staff say their hear-
ing will focus on Kenya’s recent experi-
ence in putting together a comprehens1ve
program for rhino protection and Will
explore lessons learned that may be appli-
cable to the broader range of species.

The subcommittee also plans to eX-
amine Congress’ current role in rhino
protection and what leverage mightbe
available to Congress to improve rhino
protection. Staff say a subcommittee

hearing two years ago led to the signing of '

CITES by Singapore.

House Merchant Marine contacts:
Gina DeFerrari, majority, X63533; Tom
Melius, minority, X63520. House Sci-
ence: Mike Rodemeyer, majority,
X66980; Wes Warren, minority, X66993.
——LC

THE GLOBE AND MAIL.

 

MONDAY, MAY 30, 1988

 

Pandas to visit
Winnipeg zoo

Canadian Press
WINNIPEG

'A delegation of Winnipeg resi-
dents has succeeded in persuading
Chinese authorities to lend Winni-
peg’s Assiniboine Park Zoo two
giant pandas next summer, a dele-
gation spokesman said on the week-
end. Al Davies said the pandas will
arrive in May, 1989, and return to
China after the Labor Day weekend.

 

“(1“"1'" “‘"tﬁ'rrl x.?‘:'ryrnnnrl «1 n

The Honolulu Advertiser

. .‘ 3 Monday, June 6, .1988

\ AP phat?
The World Wildlife Fund last month lost its
suit to block. the current loan of these two
pandas to the Toledo 200.

China tightens panda rules

BEIJING — The government has an-
nounced new regulations restricting the
lending of giant pandas to foreign zoos, the
official Xinhua News Agency said Saturday.

China has been offering pandas to foreign
zoos to earn much-needed foreign exchange
despite the'concerns of environmentalists.
The'foreign zoos, assured of increased reve-
nues from the popular animals, have paid
China $500,000 and more. for the right to
borrow a panda pair. " ' ’_

But the \Vorld Wildlife Fund and other
groups have complained that the rush by
American zoos to obtain pandas is endanger-
ing the animals’ survival. On loan are some
of the few pandas in the world capable of
breeding in captivity if they remained in
China. In the future, only pandas captured
or artificially bred before 1983 will be al-
lowed out of China. . '

The Chinese Association of Zoological
Gardens has now ruled that only non-com-
mercial exhibitions will 'be allowed.lForeign
zoos will also have to contribute funds or
technical assistance to the association to pro-

. tect pandas.

There are fewer. than 1.000 pandas in the
wild, all in remote areas of southwest China.

 

About 60 pandas live in Chinese zoos.

 

 




p L,
H

(.5

1,4 fp 7,” i’m

a"; a};

n,
4k
91’ on

a.
.2
a,

2%

H” a».
m}
fem
n6...
N 37m

W74“
a ...V

£1

{.75. ,
iris;

"s "2
1an;

As
'3— g

6
*6" f

-. _. . 1
, E; 32‘

. 1.": ”C"?
4 ‘2 2 5

vvji‘ :c c.
. 5.

5*
in» '

z a;

~" K '1 2:“! 9',"

. w
:13.

J.-

(v
o

Le

 




Muskoten 30, 148 00 Csmo,
Sweden, 21st March, 1988

Dear Christine Stevens,

Thank you very much for your letter of 7th March with enclosures. I am trans~
lating Iain Douglas-Hamilton's report and will send it out to the members of my
group, who number about 55 now after the CITES report (my trandation) was
publihhed in the animal protection magazine "Bjurfront". (Copy for your
files)
However, we seem to be running against time: today there was a small item in
the national newspaper "Svenska Dagbladet“ that in 1992, the elephants will be
extinct if the present trend continues. It makes the whole work seem so hope—
less, but what can we do? At least it seems WWF have woken up AT LAST, I had
there newsletter a few weeks back and they wanted money for several causes, among
which the elephants. I'd rahher do it my own way that trusting them, or what
do you think? Iain Douglas~Hamilton doesn't thing too highly of them. I would
like to send the money I collect to his Manyara fund. I had a letter from him

in the autumn and wroye back but have had no further answer since. I suppose

he has more than enough to do. Will you please give him my very best regards

’ o ‘ a 1 a + n . m- + “.miform‘ at!“ 0-9 Mu. Gem “S“M‘SJ"
and say we are deing our best on bhlS side. I ”or lgﬁp$& 3

Why people don't react more, why there isn't a general outcry, I just don't
understand.

Sorry to say I haven’t managed to get hold of Iain and Oria Douglas-Hamilton's
book "Among thehlephants. It doesn't seem to be translated into Swedish; I

do read English of course but the book may not be in circulation here. Do
you know when it was published and where I might get hold of it?

I'm so glad to know we are both working for the same cause. All the best,

Yours sincerely,

F5RSVARQ
ELEp‘NNTEQNgf
E. (3ch P‘gn
H“ “-3!“ do
”"00 dﬁno

 




 

Djurfront refererar har delar av en rapport fran CITES-
motet sommaren 1987 (CITES betyder Convention
on International Trade in Endangered Species och
reglerar handeln med utrotningshotade djurarter en-
ligt Washingtonkonventionen.) Rapporten kommer
fran Animal Welfare Institute i Washington och har
oversatts av Elisabet Peterzén.

Varldsauktoriteten Ian Douglas-Hamil-
ton har nyligen lagt fram en rapport till-
sammans med Anne Burrill, med veten-
skaplig dokumentation om trenderna for
Afrikas elefantbestand. Det ﬁr mycket
sorglig lasning: Over hela kontinenten
fortsatter bestanden att minska katastro-
falt for vart ﬁr. Tjuvskyttarna visar ingen
respekt for nationalparker, tv'a'rtom dodar
de ofta bade vakter och elefanter. En
overSikt over tabellerna for Ostafrika vi-
sar att inom tio distrikt i Kenya, som sak-
nar skydd for elefanterna, har bestz‘inden
minskat med 91 % mellan 1973 och 1987!

22

I nio omraden, som var skyddade, gick
bestanden ner med 72 % pa samma tid.
F6r Uganda visas en minskning med 89 %
i skyddade och oskyddade omraden sam-
mantaget, i Somalia beraknas 94 % har
gatt forlorade pa 15 Ear och i Sudan 77 %
pa tio fir.

Ett tillagg till rapporten av R F W Bar-
nes, ”Oversikt over elefanternas status i
Centralafrikas regnskogar”, motsiiger den
vanligaste forklaringen, som oftast fors
fram pa tal om detta fasansfulla slaktande.

Att doda elefanter for kottets skull,
som afrikaner gjort i hundratals fir, eller

for att skydda odlad mark, har inte stor
betydelse for elefantbestanden. Tjuvjakt
pa elfenben éir den huvudsakliga orsaken
till att dessa statliga djur borjar forsvinna
helt. "

Vem tjanar pa den hiir massakern? Af-
rikanska delegater skyller pa Forenade
Arabemiraten och Burundi som de rika
handelsmannens tillhall.

Sekretariatet utmanas
Burundi har l'ange varit kant som en stat
som regeimassigt sysslar med illegal elfen-

 

 

 

 




 

 

w

V‘
a.

benshantering. D5 CITES mottes 1986 i
Buenos Aires, forsdkte man fa slut pa det-
ta genom en resolution. Avsikten var att
stoppa den internationella handeln med
oidentifierat elfenben genom att séitta upp
kvoter och krava att betar skulle marke-
ras. Sekretariatet forsdkte dvertala Bu-
rundi att g5 med i CITES, och trodde att
man uppnédde detta mal genom att tolka
paragrafen sa att alla olagliga elfenbens-
férrad som fanns i Burundi skulle fa ”am-
nesti”. Men 321 fort Burundi hade fatt ige-
nom detta .villkor, vagrade de i alla fall att
skriva pa. De bryr sig inte langre om att
svara p517 brev fran CITES’ sekretariat.
Enligt uppgift skall ett par tre personer ha
blivit miljronarer tack vare Sekretariatets
beslut. 26 ton elfenben gick luftvagen fran
Bujumbura till Singapore via Oman.

Mbaele Mankoto, huvudman for Zaires
delegation, hon ett passionerat tal dar han
bad sekretariatet forklara hur Burundis
olagliga elfenben hade kunnat ”tvattas”
och fors in i den legala handeln igen. Man-
koto sade att detta var det allra viktigaste
pa hela konferensen. Han uttryckte sin
bestortning over att 91 ton elfenben hade
legaliserats och antydde att sekretariatets
forhandlingar med Burundi hade agt rum
litet val hastigt. Han talade ﬂera ganger
om elefanterna sjiilva i ordalag som ”fran-
varande vanner”.

— Vi maste komma ihag att elefantbe-
standen minskar for var dag, medan den

Patryckningar pa Burundi och
Forenade Arabemiraten

Malawi och Somalia gjorde sitt basta for
att sabotera den formella rekommenda-
tionen att deltagarna ”matte anvéinda alla
tillgangliga medel (ekonomiska, diplo-
matiska och politiska) att utova patryck-
ningar pa de lander som fortséitter sin ille-
gala elfenbenshandel, séirskilt Burundi
och Forenade Arabemiraten.” I maj 1986,
t ex skickades 17 050 kg ra-elfenben med
ﬂyg frén Mogadishu i Somalia till Abu
Dhabi i Forenade Arabemiraten. Det
fanns inget CITES-dokument eller ex-
portlicens som ﬁtfoljde lasten.

”Att diida elefanter for kiittets
skull, som afrikaner giort i
hundratals 5r, eller for att skyd-
da odlad mark, har inte sﬁ stor
betydelse for elefantbestfmden.

Tjuvjakt pa elfenben ar den hu-

vudsakliga orsaken till att dessa

statliga djur biirjar fiirsvinna

helt.”

Kenya och Tanzania, som an offer for
Valdet mot elefanterna, talade mycket
hart mot de mellanhandslander genom vil-

elfenbensj agate ,

illegala handeln viixer lavinartat. Jag fore-
slog ett fem ars moratorium, men fick veta
att det var orealistiskt pa grund av de in-
vesteringar som gjorts.

Tanzanias delegat ville veta vad sekre-
tariatet tankte gora for att inte Burundi
skulle lura dem igen. Zambias delegat sa-
Je att hans land forbjod elefantjakt 1982,
nen elefanterna fortsatter minska i antal
inda.

Ekonomiskt krig

)e afrikanska delegaternas doyen, Perez
)lindo, kallade plundringen av elefanter-
1a for ”ekonomisk krigforing”. Olindo
=.jorde forsta utkastet till CITES-konven—
ionen om internationell handel med hota-
Ye arter vid ett 91-nationsm6te i Washing-
Jn 1973. Han ar nu chef for Kenyas vilt-
ardsdepartement.

”Vz‘irt folk dor for tjuvskyttarnas han-
er”, sade Olindo under debatten i CI-
‘ES management-kommitté. ”Kriget
not elefanterna och noshorningarna ar ett
1<onomiskt krig.”

ka stora mangder tjuvjagat elfenben slus-
sas ut pz‘i den internationella marknaden.
Clark Bavin, som ar chef fOr den lagover-
vakande sidan av Fish and Wildlife Ser-
vice i USA, stodde dem.

Tanzania kampade for elefanterna och
fick stod av Kenya och Liberia. Esmond
Bradley Martin, som talade f'o'r den inter-
nationella naturvardsunionen (IUCN), sa-
de: ”Bara for ett par minuter sedan be-
kraftade sekretariatet att Forenade Ara-
bemiraten har importerat stora mangder
illegalt elfenben.”

Delegaten fréin Zimbabwe stddde ocksz‘i
Tanziania och ville att texten skulle sta
kvar. ”Det ar vz‘irt folk som dor. Det ﬁr
vara lander som plundras”, sade han.

Japan ville stryka meningen om ekono-
miska och politiska patryckningar mot
Burundi och Arabemiraten. Japan vagra-
de ocksa bestamt att registrera elfenbens-
handeln i sitt land. Representanten for J a-
pans handelsdepartement sade rent ut att
Japan inte hade négon illegal handel. Att
registrera nagot menade han var ”for ex-

tremt for Japan”. Till sist gick han med p51
att registrera importérer och exportorer.

Vi far vanta och se vad resultatet av
dessa resolutioner blir for den afrikanska
elefanten. Atminstone har det lagts en so-
lid grund for forhandlingar mellan alla de
92 lander som ar med i CITES, genom att
man erkéint att den illegala elfenbenshan-
deln snart kommer att utrota den afrikans-
ka elefanten om ingenting gors.

<>

Nagra overtradelser som har noterats pa
sista tiden ﬁr fdljande: I januari 1986 be-
slagtogs i Belgien 1 889 betar ré-elefen-
ben, som vagde 9 577 kg. De hade kom-
mit till Antwerpen sjdvagen i stora con-
tainers, och saknade ClTES-dokument
De var deklarerade som ”Bivax". Rap-
porten tillade att Belgien ”saknade moi-
Iighet att agera mot de skyldiga efter—
som varorna hela tiden handhafts av
uppenbarligen oskyldiga agenter som
handlat i god tro, och det inte gick att
pappersvagen identifiera de skyldiga”.
Sekretariatet har inte fan veta vad Bel-
gien tanker gora med elfenbenet.

<>

Minst tio tanzaniska exportlicenser vi-
sade sig ha andrats. Destinationema var
Belgien, Japan, Singapore och F6r-
enade Arabemiraten. l borjan av 1986
identifierade Belgien fem llcenser med
liknande slag av andringar. Alla skulle
ha gétt till Belgien via samma transit-
agent. Tanzania bekréiftade att olagliga
andringar hade giorts pa Iicensen. Men
da hade tva av dem redan hunnit bli ac-
cepterade av sekretariatet som lagliga,
pa basis av ett telex som sedan visade
sig ocksa vara ett bedrageri!

<>

 

Om du air speciellt intresserad
av elefanternas ode och vill hjéil-
pa till i kampen for deras over-
levnad, kan du Vanda dig till:

Elisabet Peterzén
Muskéten 30
148 00 Osmo

Elisabet far fortlopande rap-
porter fran Afrika och séiljer ka-
lendrar, vykort m m. Alla intak-
ter gar till st6d at elefanterna.
Pg 5r: 486 32 98-8.

 

 

 

<>

 




Urgent Call From the Wild to Boycott Ivory.

 

By PHILIP SHABECOFF
Special to The New York Times

WASHINGTON, May 12 — Warning
that the elephant population in Africa
is declining at an alarming rate, the Af-
rican Wildlife Foundation has called on
Americans to help save the great
mammals by refusing to buy ivory or
ivory products. -

The foundation, a private United
States group engaged in conservation
projects in Africa, said the African ele-
phant population had dropped to about
730,000 from about 1.3 million in 1977.
The United States Fish and Wildlife
Service cites similar numbers.

Foundation officials said the single

THE NEW YORK TIMES,

 

 

most important cause of the decline
was the illegal killing of elephants for
ivory. Such poaching has accelerated
with a rise in the price of ivory from
about $2.45 a pound in the 1960’s to $68 a
pound today.

Fears of Extinction

Diana E. McMeekin, vice president
of the foundation, said ivory was now
being hoarded as a stable and valuable
commodity like gold or gems. And be-
cause of the resulting jump in the price
of ivory, she said, “There is a new and
concerted attack on the elephants of

Africa, which may, if not checked, push ,

them to the very brink of extinction.”

 

Cynthia Moss, a senior associate, of
the foundation who is the author of
“Elephant Memories,” a book that was
recently published by William Morrow
& Company, said isolated pockets of Af-
rican elephants might survive the
ivory poaching. But she said the exten-
sive scale of illegal killing had already
disrupted the complex structure of ele-
phant herds in much of Africa by de-
stroying the older animals that guide
and teach the young. She said ele-
phants “are very special, very intelli-
gent animals,” that deserved to be pro-
tected.

Ms. McMeekin said Americans buy
about 30 percent of the jewelry, figu-

 

 

 

Federal Register / Vol. 53. No. 83 / Friday. April 29. 1988 / Notices

 

 

Endangered Species Convention;
Prohibition on Importation of Burundi
Ivory

AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service.
Interior.

ACTION: Notice.

 

SUMMARY: Effective immediately. the
United States bans the importation of
ivory from Burundi that was not
registered with the CITES Secretariat by
December 1. 1986. All ivory importations
from any country that allows this
Burundi ivory. whether in a raw or
worked form, to be imported into or
pass through that country will be
prohibited.

SUPPLEMENTARY lNFORMATlON: At the
fifth meeting of the Conference of the
Parties to the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) in 1985. The Secretariat was
given the authority to form an Ivory
Control Unit and to establish the Ivory
Quota Control Procedures which control
legal trade in African elephant ivory
between Parties (and certain non-Parties
adhering to these Procedures) and which
also allowed a one-time trade of ivory
stockpiled in non-producer countries
only if it was registered with the CITES
Secretariat by December 1. 1986. The
Second Republic of Burundi, a non—party
and non-elephant producing country,
registered 89.464 Kg of raw ivory (18,148

tusks) with the Secretariat by this

deadline. Although ivory trade experts
believed that much of this ivory was

illegally obtained. the Secretariat

decided that stockpiles such as those in
Burundi needed to be brought under

Burundi stocks from countries that are
party to CITES. .

An informal report from the CITES
Secretariat and information from
independent sources now confirm that
an additional 100 : metric tons of
elephant ivory that have not been
registered under the CITES system have
been discovered in Burundi. According
to the report. the government of Burundi
has stated that 16,437 tusks (87.5625 Kg)
were imported prior to the import ban
instituted by the government of the
Third Republic on November 5. 1987.
and are now being held by three private
dealers. In addition. the Burundi
Customs Service has seized 21.698 Kg of
ivory that was imported after the ban,
although their irregularity has not been
established and the status, of these
stocks is still in question. Since no ivory-
producing country has authorized the
export of this ivory to Burundi. and it
has not been registered under the CITES
system, the United States believes this
Burundi ivory was obtained illegally.

The United States is encouraged by
the actions of Burundi in imposing an
import ban on elephant ivory and in
attempting to enforce this ban.
Unfortunately. Burundi can take no legal
action against the ivory imported into
Burundi prior to the November 5 ban. a
quantity of illegal ivory nearly equal to
that which was registered under CITES
prior to December 1. 1986. While
Burundi does not want to be entrepot for
illegal ivory. the government is
reportedly powerless to prohibit export
of these new stocks.

Therefore. the United States
encourages all countries to join in
prohibiting the importation of this illegal

SUNDAY. MAY 15, 1988’ 3'

rines and‘ other finished ivory products
sold each year worldwide, making
them the second-largest consumers of
these products after the Japanese.
Most of the ivory carving is done in
Hong Kong, she said. About 80 percent
of the ivory-sold in the world is taken
from illegally slaughtered elephants,
and much of it is falsely certified as
legal, wildlife experts say. '

Plea to Americans

Ms. McMeekin said that if Amer-
icans would stop buying ivory prod-
ucts, which she said were sold at some
leading department stores and other
retail outlets, they would help reduce
the demand for ivory and ease the
threat to African elephants.

Legislation has been introduced in
Congress that would ban all ivory sales

in the United States. But Ms. McMeekin
said the foundation did not support an

. official ban because it might be coun-

terproductive. She explained that a ban
might cause resentment among Af-
rican nations, leading them to resist
conservation programs. She said the
foundation believed that the best ap-
proach was to wage a campaign to per-
suade AmeriCans to make individual
decisions not to buy ivory.

Conservationists Are Divided

David Western, chairman of the Af-
rican Elephant and Rhino Specialist
Group, an organization of scientists
and wildlife managers, said that while
some conservationists supported a ban
on ivory trade, “a majority feel that
putright bans would not solve the prob-
em.”

Dr. Western, who is director of the
New York Zoological Society’s Conser-
vation International program, said in a
telephone interview that a ban “would
exaggerate the problems with wildlife
in Africa because African nations use
the revenue frbm ivory to help finance

‘ ‘- vxtbeir conservation programs.”

David Klinger, a spokesman for the
Fish and Wildlife Service, said that the
African elephant wasclassified as a
“threatened” rather than an “endan-
gered” species under United States
law, and ivory could therefore be le-
gally bought and soldunder the Con-
vention on International Trade in En-
dangered Species.

 

 

any country that allows this Burundi
ivory, whether in a raw or worked form.
to be imported into or pass through that
country.

DATE: This action is effective April 29.
1988. There is not expiration date.

control of the Ivory Quota Control
Procedures, so that the new quota
system for ivory exports could operate
efficiently and effectively. The entire
stockpile was thus allowed into
international trade. and most of it was
later imported legally into Hong Kong.
The United States has allowed the
importation of ivory derived from the

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:

Clark R. Bavin. Division of Law

Enforcement. US. Fish and Wildlife

Service. PO. Box 28006. Washington. DC

20038-8006, Telephone: 202—343-9242.
Dated: April 26. 1988.

Frank Dunkle.

Director.

ivory. Furthermore. the United States
will take extraordinary measures to
determine the trading route of this ivory
to prevent its importation into this
country. We will invoke the emergency
regulation provision of the US.
Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1533
(b)(7)) to ban all ivory importations from

 




THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR

.x-s \>‘-‘~E§&*-¢‘- \ \§~ ~;.-.\“-‘.‘~.;.-‘.+\~~‘-:-'~\:_‘“

MAY 16, 1988

. . . .'.'.-i\‘?‘ '
\ \w ~

’ It’s time to save the elephant

lowing his ears and trumpeting a

challenge, symbolizes nature’s
magniﬁcence. But if that image is to sur-
vive in fact, not just in our imaginations,
quick action is needed.

Wildlife experts estimate that 800,000
of Africa’s elephants were slaughtered
for their tusks in the past decade. Some
700,000 remain. They’re being shot at the
rate of 70,000 a year; another 10,000 die
because older elephants, teachers and
protectors of the young, are lost.

It’s not stretching things very far to
say that the Western consumer who buys
carved ivory in a New York boutique is
helping pull the trigger in the African
bush. Each year tons of poached ivory is
secreted out of places like Tanzania and
Uganda to the Far East for carving, then
off to retailers in the United States, Eu-
rope, and Japan. In the process, the value
of the ivory multiplies a hundred times. It
is estimated that 80 percent of the ivory
being sold today comes from poaching.

Clearly, Africa’s nations have a crucial
role in saving the elephant from extinc-
tion. In Kenya, elephants have made a
comeback in a few protected wildlife re-
serves. And a concerted effort by the
Tanzanian government and international
wildlife organizations has arrested the
killing of elephants in the giant Selou
reserve. But the picture in most of Africa

T HE image of a bull elephant, bil-

is bleak, with outmanned and outgunned
rangers unable to hold off poachers.

But Africa is only one front in this
battle. As long as the market expands,
poaching will ﬂourish. Africans who do
the actual killing get only a tiny cut of the
proﬁts. But what they get can be a huge
supplement to sparse incomes.

If Americans would simply stop buy—
ing ivory trinkets, the world market
would shrink by 30 percent. Consumer
boycotts are, therefore, a promising tac-
tic, and wildlife groups like the Washing-
ton-based African Wildlife Fund are going
to push that approach during the coming
Year of the Elephant observance.

In the long term, development of better
methods for marking ivory — employing,

, perhaps, such sophisticated techniques as

irradiation — could help control the com-
merce in poached tusks. At present, it’s
nearly impossible to distinguish between
illegal and legal ivory.

Legislation may play a part, too,
though outright bans on the import of
ivory could alienate African countries
that are making an honest effort to en- t

force a limited, legal harvest. Those coun- I
tries sorely need the foreign exchange a I
vi

legitimate ivory trade could bring.

'lb save the elephant, cooperation and
understanding will have to subdue greed
and indiﬂ'erence. In that sense, this battle
is crucial for humanity, too.

Houston Post

Cat News, 8.

Bleak future for Asian cheetah

The future looks bleak for the last sur-
vivors of the Asiatic cheetah Acinonyx
jubatus uenaticus in Iran and Soviet
Turkmenistan. Ten years ago Iran was
said to have about 200 in reserves and
50 outside, but in recent years protec-
tion has collapsed, reserves have been
invaded by graziers, and gazelles, the
main cheetah prey, have been heavily
poached. A biologist in Teheran Uni-
versity plans to survey the current
status. In Turkmenia the remaining ani-
mals in the wild will not survive ac-
cording to Algirdas Knystautas, and he
recommends that reintroducing the
African cheetah is the only way to
re-establish the population there. He
believes that the African and Asian sub~
species, if they are distinct at all, are
already mixed in the wild population
in Turkmenia as a result of escapes in
the past when African Cheetahs were
imported for hunting. The last known
Cheetahs in India were three shot in
1947; in Oman a fresh skin was brought
into Muscat in 1978, but there have
been no further reports of any in the
wild. '

8 March 1988

 

 

I Brodubts from protected species

endanger tourists' dollars

DEAR ABBY: As'
secretary of“the inte-
rior, I am aware of
your long-standing
concern for animals,
so I’m seeking your
help in persuading
American tourists to
refrain from buying
products made from
the world’s endangered wildlife.
Each year, more than 10 million
Americans travel abroad and spend
an estimated $14 billion —— some
of it for items made from sea tur-
tles, reptile skins, spotted animals

and other imperiled animal and
plant species.

Because these items cannot be
brought into the United States le-
gally, they are confiscated by US.

 

 

DEAR ABBY

' Customs authorities.

Our problem: Most people are
unaware of the US. laws prohibit-
ing importation of products made
from endangered species, so we
need to reach people like your
readers, many of whom may be
contemplating trips to foreign
countries where they will spend
hundreds —— some thousands — of
dollars on articles that will be
seized!

The regulations are complex.
For example, it’s illegal to import
articles made from Asian ivory, but
articles made from African ivory

, are legal.

People who anticipate trips
abroad need to know what items
may be confiscated, so we have a
new pamphlet titled Buyer Beware,
available free to anyone who sends
a long, self—addressed, stamped
(22 cents) envelope. It would be
enormously helpful if you would
publish this letter along with our
address. My personal thanks, Abby,
for publicizing this important pam-

phlet.
— DONALD P. HODEL
SEC. OF THE INTERIOR

 

’

DEAR SECRETARY HODEL:
You can count on me to spread
the word. Readers, write to:

Buyer Beware, cl 0 World Wild-
life Fund — U.S., 1250 24th St.
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20037.
And don’t forget to enclose a
long, self-addressed, stamped
(22 cents) envelope.

Now a word to my Canadian
readers: Canada, too, is con-
cerned about animals and
plants now facing extinction, so,
before you set off on trips to re-
gions of the globe that support a

flourishing trade in exotic birds
and animals, fashionable jewel-
ry, furs and unique tropical
plants, write to:

Administrator, CITES, Cana-
dian Wildlife Service, Ottawa,
Ontario, Canada, K1A 0H3. Ask
for the free pamphlet titled
Noah Didn ’t Need a Permit,
What About You? No self-ad-
dressed envelope is necessary.

 




Winter 1988 — Earth Island Ioarnal

How Dams Disrupt Elephant Habitat

by Doug Oman

 

The most obvious threat to elephants, espe-
tially 1n Africa, is poaching. But less direct
threats to elephants exist that can be dam-
aging and sometimes devastating. The dis-
ruption and degradation of elephant habi-
tat by dams and other water projects is such
a threat. A typical example exists in South
India, in Kerala state and the neighboring
states of Kamataka and Tamil Nadu.

In the region of the Anamalai-Param- ' _, ‘ ‘3 . ,.<
bikulam wildlife sanctuaries on the border ' 'I -, .17: ,, ‘ ."f 1& 1
between Kerala andTamil Nadu, aseries of . ,.—- - . l ' ' . . .. ' ' ‘12-. . '
hydroelectric reservoirs and associated , i . . "I" I ’ ’ I ' '3‘ I I , '1 ,/ /,«> f //
canals and penstock pipes haveblocked the ' ._ / ' ,/// /// if)
elephants’ traditional migratory routes. . ‘ . ' . .— ' .y". 2211’; ‘ 1 4 ~ .5. 67m? ' '7' ’/

. ‘\ . |\
I . 'l ‘
, l 1 ‘.‘
)I' .- / ' .. l '
AQ‘W/d .- iii." I, ' . _

0
//

O

I I

‘1'

s
I

Thus, the elephant habitat has been frag-
mented. In one location, water is conveyed
from a reservoir to a powerhouse through a
Channel that is partly aboveground. Many
animals, including elephants, have unsus—
pectin gly entered the open channel to drink
or cross and have been swept away by the
strong current, often ending up struggling
at the entries to the underground tunnels.
Some animals have been rescued, but oth-
ers, including some elephants, have
drowned. .

Not all dams have fragmented
elephant habitat. A reservoir in the Periyar
region, farther south — although it has
submerged fertile river valleys which pro-
vide valuable feeding areas -— has not
proved a hindrance to elephants.

Calamity in Kerala

However, further development plans exist
that could devastate much of the remaining
habitat. According to Dr. S. Santhi of the
Forum for Participatory Studies and Con-
servation Action in Kerala, there are ”at
least six major dams proposed in Kerala, on
which the preliminary work has already
started, which will wipe away almost all of
. the remaining natural forest areas in the
Western Ghats of Kerala.”

Al‘thoughthe elephant is highlyadapt—
able and can live in environments ranging
from dry thorn scrub to wet evergreen for-
est, its preference 15 for deciduous forests.
Elephant biologist R. Sukumar claims that
in the region, the elephant’s ”strategy of
’ utilizing different favorable habitats ac-
cording to the season requires that a diver-
sity of habitats is present for a healthy
population.” The proposed dams would
clearly be devastating to the elephants, and
much else besides.

Indian elephant bull (Asia). Illustration /by Carl Dennis Buell.

Forests are vitally important to human
beings, too. Peasant and tribal groups draw
on them for fodder for livestock, for mulch
for agriculture and for ﬁrewood; such

groups have often established records of

thousands of years of stable use of forests.

 

Six new dams in Kerala
would devastate the
elephant range, ﬂooding
the remaining forests
in the Western Ghats.

 

Forests also supply lumber — currently a
cause of great danger because of overcut-
ting by the timber trade —- and are a source
of atmospheric oxygen. In many places,
forests control erosion, landslides and
ﬂooding which otherwise can disrupt
human habitation.

Hope in Hyderabad

A possible alternative to the proposed dam
system is suggested by work occurring in
India a few hundred miles to the north. The
Center for Environment Concerns in
Hyderabad, a citizens’ group founded in
1985, has been carrying out studies to seek
alternatives to a dam proposed in the
Hyderabad region. The dam would sub-
merge 64,000 hectares of land and 250 vil-
lages; 150,000 people would be displaced.
The Center has been studying alternatives
that would increase irrigation in the region

without displacing people or causing de~ V

forestation. These involve more small wa-

ter projects and a greater reliance on
groundwater, to be augmented by facilities
called check dams and percolation ponds.
Such schemes enhance local control and
minimize national bureaucracies. The Cen-
ter is conducting a type of cost-beneﬁt as-

. sessment of the proposed dam and its alter-

natives as seen from the village level. Per-
haps the Kerala region could be maintained
as a habitat for elephants by use of these or
other alternative techniques. ,

As the Hyderabad case shows, the
most fertile suggestions from the point of
view of the natural environment do not
always come from government planners
and large corporations. Large organiza-
tions can sometimes be sensitive, but are
often insensitive to the environment be-
cause they inflexibly pursue short-term
goals such as profit or power. For a large
organization to learn flexibility, a great deal
of disciplined, dedicated work is often re—
quired by individuals, not only those who
comprise the organization, but those who
interact with it in other capacities.

Just as many species combine to form
an ecosystem, the contributions of many
different people and organizations are
needed to re-establish harmony between
human beings, elephants and the environ-
ment. In southern India, this means ﬁnding
ways to control water that satisfy human

beings without hurting elephants; in other
places, other problems must be creatively
solved in order to protect the elephant and
restore harmony between the elephant, the
human being and the environment they
share.

—A longer version of this article originally
appeared in the Hasti Newsletter.

 




Winter 1988 -- Earth Island ]ournal

 

Asian Elephants inthe Wild

by Myron .Hinrichs

There are 25,000 Asian elephants in the
wild, spread over a vast territory from
China (250) to Indonesia (300) to India,
where some 10,000 live. Once millions of
elephants ranged over Asia and were found
~ as far west as Syria and Iran. Today only ten
countries in Asia still have elephants.

The Asian elephants’ decline began. in
the nineteenth century, during colonial
times. Today governments and conserva-
tionists throughout Asia are working hard
to save the magnificent animals that are left.
It is time for more of us in the United States
to join the ﬁght and offer our assistance, for
these elephants are an endangered species.

The Asian elephant, although smaller
than its African cousin, is still a massive
creature, with adult males weighing up to
five tons. Some subtle anatomical differ-
ences (including smaller ears and 'one tip on
the end of the trunk instead of two) distin-
guish the Asian from the African elephant.

As the world’s largest land mammal,
the elephant needs lots of food each day.
Estimates are that adults need 300‘ pounds
of green food daily. This may be grass or
forest vegetation, depending on the coun—
try and area in which the elephants reside.
A study in Malaysia showed palms consti-
tuted 60 percent of the diet. In other areas,
grass might comprise the majority of the
diet; in still others, the bark, fruit and leaves
of other trees may provide most of the
forage. -

Diet and Habitat—
A Deadly Dilemma

This ponderous appetite has become a
problem for the Asian elephant. As palm oil
plantations expand onto previously for-
ested land, there is a clash with elephants
around the plantations. What is the planta-
tion owner going to do? He drives off the
elephants, he builds log barriers, and he
digs trenches, with little effect. (The latest
ploy, a pulsed electric fence, is showing
promise).

The main habitat of the Asian elephant
lies in the tropical teak and mahogany
hardwood forests of Asia. But these forests

m”\l’lf‘lﬂ""ll,‘lf[§,lfi; -
W" .. -.‘.:2

‘ . 13' 5 -" \ .
C . 9.} .m; g
' i ' ; ‘3 \ xx '1
‘ \l‘ y w; .

l "'1”; ”3 :/

\ V fr.
,3.» l.
o ‘ ~ 3‘ 1'

\ I ,

«

Young Indian elephant meets a palm civet. Illustration by Carl Dennis Buell.

are rapidly being harvested in many coun-
tries, and the agriculture that replaces the
forests leaves no room for elephants. In
Thailand, where 80 percent of the forests
have been cleared, elephants are isolated
into protected ”islan ” forest sanctuaries,
in groups of 25 to 1 00. If they start eating the

' vegetation outside the sanctuary, there is a

clash with farmers. People and elephants
are killed in these clashes throughout Asia.

Metapopulations and Mortality

When we discuss the Asian elephant popu-
lation, it is misleading to think of a group of
25,000. Rather, We find elephants in various
”metapopulations” that are ”fragmented.”
These are, two terms conservation biolo-
gists use to describe a very real problem in
any wildlife species that is dwindling in
numbers. Simply put, when timber har-
vesting cuts a swath down-the middle of an
elephant range, it divides it into two .”frag-
mented" parcels and (the elephants can no
longer go back and forth. Those elephants
separated in the two fragmented ranges are
called ”metapopulations.” There can be
disturbing consequences to all of this. Any
population has a number (the MVP, or
Minimum Viable Population) below which
it can no longer. sustain itself as a species
and faces extinction. Looking at our wild
Asian elephants again, we find a group of
elephants in Nepal, for example, totaling
45. Are they already below the MVP? What
of those pockets of 25 to 100 in Thailand?
Many of Asia’s elephants are fragmented in
this manner.

One of the major factors determining
the size of the MVP for a giQn species is the
length of time from one generation to the
next. The elephant’s generation time —— fif-
teen years — is long compared with that of
other animals. Another factor affecting the
MVP is the makeup of the gene pool in the
metapopulation. A gene pool that is ho-
mozygous (similar) has more potential for
inbreeding problems, which hasten
extinction.

Steps to Save the Elephant

Ivory, poaching is a problem. Only male
elephants in Asia have tusks (except in Sri
Lanka) but because the elephants have had
a working relationship with the people of
Asia as a beast of burden, poaching is not
the problem it is in Africa. But it still occurs.

The greater danger is from the ongoing
destruction of the forests in Asia, the only
habitat left to the elephant. People in the US
who want to help the elephant don’t have to
go to Asia. Just remember to ask some
simple questions the next time you shop for
furniture. Do you really need a teakwood
cabinet for your bookshelves? Why not use

a wood grown here in North America?

Another example: We in the United
States export something to Third World
countries in Asia that is very destructive to
wildlife —— our life-style. By our example,
we promote the proﬂigate waste of valu-
able resources. We waste electricity and we
Waste fresh water. We cry for more dams
which take land from wildlife. While it is
true that Third World countries absolutely
need electricity to raise their standard of
living, they do not need to emulate us on the
use of this or any other resource. In fact,
some Third World countries are now using
smaller scale hydroelectric plants which
are less disruptive to the environment
while still producing much-needed elec-
tricity.

No matter how bad the situation looks,
it is not an irreversible mandate of destiny
that Asian elephants become extinct. We
always have the ability to change things
through the choices we make.

-— Myron Hinrichs is on the editorial board of
Hasti. Hasti, an organization seeking ”to pro-
tect and preserve the highly evolved but endan-
gered elephant,” is a project of the Blue Moun-
tain Center of Meditation, a non-profit corpora—
tion. To subscribe to the quarterly Hasti
Newsletter send $10 to the Blue Mountain
Center of Meditation, PO Box 477, Petaluma,
CA 94953.

 




Rﬁiﬁﬁﬁ’ﬁﬁ MARI: $1.988.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

Robert Muggli

McCrone Associates, Inc.
850 Pasquinelli Drive
Westmont, IL 60559

Dear Dr. Muggli,

Because of the widespread sale of illegal ivory from poached N\\\\x
elephants and the frequent claim that the objects made ‘”
from it are "antique", we are interested in knowing about

available methods of ascertaining the age of an ivory object.

I read about your work in the March 18th issue of Science.
Any information you could send which could be useful to
government or private agencies would be appreciated.

Sincerely,

6%”? 0%; ,

Christine Stevens
President

 




 

 

7‘

.0 n ,v
. an. -
’W-i‘d "K 'w.‘ I‘,” : -‘, p

 

1:: . .“- '75‘ '
. ' . . ._J

PARIS; ‘ Sun: Ivory: traders 4,
could’ make . the . African.

elephant extinct within five
years unless governments
took immediate tough act-
ion, according to a French
zoologist. E: 3

. .

Pierre Pfeii’er, a research:
worker with thet'National‘

Centre for Scientiﬁc Research
in Paris. said more than

i

, F. d.
. 7., I. 9,. .-

' l.
t . i . l 0:, o _.g
r m- u - t. ,-
o u
t
. -- (
n .
8 ‘

-‘.
'.

younger targets.

7.

~' . e 2. v .

 

.: r ~.~«.:,.;"¥;, . .- .. ' 3
100,000- elephants-Were
slaughtered each year and-
hunters were now killing
"‘At this rate there will be no
elephants in the wild within
four to live years.” he said. ’
Two measures were essential
to the elephants survival.
One was its registration as an
endangered species on a list
compiled in Washington which

.__‘.—.

-‘.

i

.‘
,o . ‘. 3 u. - _ _ .4" (”"3“ ' My, F‘le‘ ‘ . ‘3”. -' I , . ‘ . .
,g “H .3 5.2;?“ "I" “V 5"‘w‘i'z.';.i,’ . .; l " ~.'"Q iglrﬁ' H¢§.&*'Y$ {:X‘r 43“ , %? ix ) (.i‘. "'5 7M :1. . ' D‘
1' 4 ' '7 '7 ., ' ‘ "' V ’7‘ '- V45 3' s ,r . 2'9 ~..”».:w;' -' r 31:“ -;' “'f‘ .- ,r , . '

‘L

 

Hg.

.rﬁi- ‘ '

wouldi‘oii’tslawﬁheﬂtrade, and
' another was, a'ban on import-
ing or handling ivory in the

. , European Community.

5‘: 'The Affidanelephant’s popu-r
lation had dropped from 2.5

3’ 'miiiio'n at the endoi Werld War ,

II to less than 500,000.

Elephants have been all but ,
wiped out in West Africa. with
a few dozen surviving in Sene-

W

   

" gal and about 1000 on the Ivory

   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

Coast.

They were also under threat
in Zaire, Cameroon and Gabon

. and had been wiped out in the
, Central African Republic.-

Mr Pfefier said another worry;
ing aspect of the trade was the
fact that hunters were pre-
pared to take ever smaller

» elephants. ' ~

For persbnal reasons .the following Twct
Bedroom Timeshares are available at ies;
than half the current list price —~ fol
quick sale. ‘

 

'~ ‘- -'...'::~,g-,¢rm1--;-u:'
‘ 7‘ .‘H‘ hcvl 0»5J '

SILVER SANDS TIMESHARES
AT LESS THAN 1/2 PRICE .
FOR PRIVATE SALE l

 

l
L ' .. List PriCe sale Price

XmasHolidavs ~ $l6,570 $7.500
White Weeks; -
Blue Weeks

$12,570 $5,500
s 9,570 $4,500

FOR DETAILS

W

i

PHONE 321 4124‘-

‘

 




elephant Y7
said near
extinction

Agence France-Presse

M-“ -_

ENCLQSURE l

K

L PARIS — Ivory traders will
’ hunt the African elephant into
' extnction within ﬁve years un-
' less governments crack down

hard and fast, according to a
French zoologist.

More than 100,000 elephants
are slaughtered each year. and
. _. hunters are training their riﬂes
on younger and younger targets.
said Pierre Pfeffer. research
' '- worker with the National Center

. _.,..——

.,._..‘—-._

—_’-—--— ,..

7A DELE W ZENCIJ

.. elephants in

5 to ﬁve years." he told Agence
France-Presse. .

Only the middlemen made
much money out of the trade. he
said. while African countries
saw precious little of the profits.

.—-—-—'-"’- v-

.—

Two measures are essential to
the elephant‘s survival. Pfeffer
said: its registration as an en-
dangered species on a list com-
piled in Washington. which
would eil'ectively outlaw the in-
ternational ivory trade; and a
ban on irnporting or handling
virgin or sculpted ivory in the

European Economic
, Communitv. ~

The lndianvariety of elephant.

‘_; which number some 30,000 in
india. Sri Lanka. Thailand. Bur- .

. ma and Sumatra. is less at risk

because its tusks are smaller. he
7. said. ‘ '

 

o—- a. w -..——.—_

But the African elephant pop-

ulation has dropped from 2 5
g: million at the end of World War
g; 11 to less than 500.000 today.

. Soaring ivory prices have pro-
. , voked the carnage. with‘tusks
1.", now fetching $118 per kilo
(about $54 per pound), more
' - than200 times their worth at
f‘- the start of the 19705.

. Around 90.000 elephants are
1; slaughtered each year to meet
‘. demand from the Far East — a
- total of 3 me 1.6 million since
1.. 197i. Pi tier said.

Elephants have been all but
_.' wiped out in West Africa. with a
; few dozen surviving in Senegal
' and around 1.000 in Ivory

\l‘. h?

 

 




? «r

9
J

Emma @2325

Nov. 20, 1967

 

DEFEND THE WILDLIFE OFFICERS
. AND .
CLEAN UP THE WILDLIFE CONSER
VATION FORCES

Regular readers of the Sudan Times will ha Ve noticed
that we have given extensive coverage to wildlife con-
cerns in the country and have been particularly critical
of the role of the Wildlife Conservation Forces (W. C. F. ),
the body. ofﬁcially desegnated to protect Sudan ’3 wild
game. We have not done this, because of any ideolog-
ical orientations or' lack of interest in- the welfare of
people as some Of our critics have charged, but be-
cause we believe that the wildlife of Sudan is a great
natural resource that deserves to be protected and not
fall into the hands of unscrupulous private interests
whose sole concern is their profits. We also feel that
the leadership of the W.C.F. is not only not up to the
challenge of protecting our wildlife resources, 'but that
it is in fact part of the problem.

The W.C.F. has lost sight of its worthy task and has
became pre—occupied with its own narrow interests.
This is brought into sharp relief in the present prosecu-
tion -* €25!” would call it persecution - of thirty—one
wildlife ofﬁcers by their supperiors. The ofﬁcers are
charged with signing a petition accusing the adminis-
tration of the Forces with various malpractices ranging

from complicity in the on—going ivory trade to assisting
>I’ Saudi princes on illegal hunting expeditions to ﬁnancial
irregularities. .

The hearings are strictly an internal affair and dis-
creditable hearings they are. Departmental procedures
have been forgone, the defendents have not been al-
lowed legalrepresentation and to cap it off the presid-
ing “judge” himself led one of the illegal Saudi hunting
parties. Moreover, a few weeks ago the trials had to
be postponed when the judge went on a haj as the
quest. of the same Saudi hunters.

The whole trial is thus a farce and would be quite
amusing if not that the careers of thirty—one contienti-
ous‘ and brave young men are at stake. In a country
where complaints of official corruption are so often
heard, these men have stood up and by their dedication
and courage, have earned the respect of all of us. We
must not let them down in their hour of need.

Barring an equital of the ofﬁcers, which seems un-
likely, since that would impliéitly acknowledge the val-
idity of the ofﬁcers’ charges and the whole purpose of
the trial must surely be to discredit them, the officers
will soon be duly found guilty. At this point, the ofﬁcers
will most likely appeal the decisidn to the Minister of
the Interior, which in our view is where the whole
episode should have been resolved when it ﬁrst came
up.

But what the Minister should do - indeed, should
have done months ago - is n0t to rule on the accusa-
tions against the wildlife ofﬁcers but seriously investi-
gate the charges the officers have leveled against the

 

Wildlife Conservation Forces. If he thinks - as the
WC. F. clearly does - that the issues raised by the
ofﬁcers can be covered up «and forgotten by focusing
on their supposed indiscipline, then he will ﬁnd that
he is mistaken. The Wildlife Forces under their present
administration, are an embarassment to the country,
and will remain an embarassmen t, until the government
steps into the fray, orders an investigation and begins ’
cleaning up the mess that is the result of years of

 

 

 

government ne lect.
L g . -

J

Sudan Times - Dec. 23, 1987.
“mm-”—
WILDLIFE OFFICERS MAY BE

NOMINA TED FOR
INTERNA TIONAL A WARD

in the wake of tne
controversy over the
dismissal of
wildlife officers and the
punishments handed
out to twenty two
others, for signing a
petition highly critical of
their superiors in the
Wildlife Conservation
Forces, the Sudan Envi-
ronment Protection So-

ciety has announced -
that they will be recom-‘

mending that the offic-
eins be nominated for an
international conserva—
tirin award-

Members Of the Envi-
ronment Protection So-
ciety told Sudan Times
yesterday that they are
proposing that the offic-

three ‘

ers receive a highly pre—
stigious award from the
International Union. for
the Conservation of Na-
ture and National Fie-
sources (IUCN) which is ’
granted annually to indi-
viduals who have’made
an outstanding con—
tribution to wildlife con-
servation. Although the
Society is not a member
oflUCN they report that
they have already
raised the matter with
officials of the Sierra
Club, a large American
conservation organiza-

tion which is a member
of the IUCN and that

their initial response
was described as
‘ ‘positive ”

 

 

 

 

 

Animal joke gifts

 




SUDAN TIMES

 

Nov. 12, 1987

 

SAUDI HUNTERS
AT IT AGAIN '

The crisis prone Wildlife
Conservation Forces are
again in the midst of a con-
troversy, this time over the
issuing of permits to two
Saudi princes that allows
them to capture ten pairs
of ostriches. The permits
have been issued to El Amir
Tarki Mohamed Abdel
Rahman and El Sheikh
~ Abdel Rahman lbn Amar
and were signed by Dr. El
Rayah Omer Hassab Alla,
Director of ' the Wildlife
Forces on the 23rd of Sep-
tember. The permit allows
the two princes to export
the ostriches to Ryadh,
Saudi Arabia. '

The permits stipulate
that the Saudi princes must
donate a further ' ﬁve pairs
of ostriches to the Khar-
toum 200. A representative
‘ of the Saudi princes, Sayed
‘ lesam Abd Allah, is in Khar-
toum now arranging with
the Wildlife Forces to get
health certiﬁcates, export
certificates and the like.

Predictably the indepen-
dent conservationist
group, the Sudan En viron-‘
ment Protection Society, is
outraged. They fought a
long battle over the Wildlife
Forces’ support for suc-
cessive groups of Saudi

SUDAN TIMES FRIDAY'JANUARY 15, 1988

 

SA UD/ RED CRESCENT SOCIETY OFFICIALS
_ . ARRESTED UNDER GA ME LA WS,,,,, ..

Sudan Times has learned that the Director of
the Saudi Red Crescent Society (the Saudi branch
of the International Red Cross) together with three
other officials of the agency and their Sudanese
driver were all arrested in connection with offences
Under the Wildlife Ordinance Act on Tuesday after
extensive investigations by officers of the Wildlife

Conservation Forces.

After many weeks of un-
dercover work at Khar-
toum ‘ Airport ' plain-
clothed game officers ar-
rested the
driver of a- Saudi Red
Crescent Society- vehicle
found to be carrying six
gazelles. This led to the

hunters who illegally
hunted down gazelles,
bustards and ostriches
only a few months ago. A
spokesman for the Envi-
ronment Society ques~
tioned how the Saudis were
able to get these permits.
when all wild animals and.
birds are go vemmeht prop-
erty. He contended that
capturing game should
only be conducted by the
government when it can
ensure that the conserva-
tion of the animal is not at
risk. The spokesman of the
Environment Protection

Sudanese .

sUbsequent arrest. of four
officials of the Society in-
cluding its Director. All five

'men are being charged
under Articles 36 and 39‘

of the Wildlife Ordinance
Act which-pertains to the
illegal possession of wild
animals and to their illegal
export. Officers of the
Wildlife Forces also took
possession of the vehicle

Society made it clear that
in the view of his organiza-
tion ostriches are at risk
and no permits for their
capture should be issued.
The spokesman also
raised the question of how
the- Wildlife FOrces could
issue a permit for the cap-
ture of such a large number
of ostriches without stating .
where they were to be cap-
tured. He also wanted to
know if it was now the pol-
icy of the Forces to import
Saudi princes to hunt game
for public zoos.

__A_

used to transport the
gazelles which had a CD

licence number, that is, it.

was registered as a dip-
lomatic vehicle.
If found guilty the ac-

cused could be impris-

oned for up to one year
and fined E2, 000.
Game ~~officers learned

' of the illegal shipments of

gazelles from Khartoum to
Saudi Arabia through con-
tacts in the airport. These
sources have said that

this trade has gone on for

the past three years and
involves vehicles bearing
Saudi Red Crescent Soci-
ety insignia transporting
the gazelles to the airport

twice a week" where they;
are put ‘on board cargo
planes bound for Saudi _

Arabia.

Inquiries have led the
game officers to conclude
that the gazelles are cap-
tured in Kordofan, Darfur
and West Omdurman by
local residents who sell
' the animalsto traders who
transport them to Omdur-
man. They are then sold
directly to the Saudis and
taken to Saudi Arabia

where they are kept as '

pets or used to stock pri-
vategame reserves. It is

‘ apparently

hunt gazelles.

While the case is certain
to raise questions about
the security conditions at
Khartoum Airport, coming

.as it does in the wake of

the recent uranium ship-

.. ment scandals, as well as

questions about the prop-
riety of aid agency officials
involving
themseres in an activity
of this nature, conser-

vationists say the case il-

lustrates the need to reim-
pose the ban only recently
lifted on the export of
gazelles. Members of the
Sudan Environment Pro-
tection . Society were
highly critical of the deci-
sion last month to lift the
eighteen month long ban
on the export of gazelles
despite the claim by the
leadership of the Wildlife
Conservation Forces that

their studies had shown

that there was a good
stock of the animals in the
country.’ Dr. Mutasim
Nimir, Director of the
Ministry of Agriculture’s
Wildlife Research Centre,
was recently reported to
have said that no such
studies have been carried
out and that gazelle num-
bers had seriously de-
clined in recent years.




 
    
  

  
 
  
    
 
 
    
       
   

 

seer» -

“'37-": '

   
 
   
 

:7

,.THET

 
 

IMé,‘ SATUMAYAI 9‘ .  

 

v'./

   
 

Sudanese receptionist
checked me into the hotel,
while a Filipino carried my
suit-case. In the bar I drank
Dutch beer while a German
maitre d‘hotel took my

order for dinner served by an Indian.
Enjoying the wine‘of Bordeaux, I was
subjected to Simon and Garfunkel
numbers sung by Mike and Julie from
Shefﬁeld. My wake-up call came from a
Chinese telephonist and I drove into the
city in a Japanese taxi with a Pakistani at
the wheel. The riddle is: where was I?

No, not Hammersmith. Dubai — one
of the seven desert sheikhdoms covering
an area two-and—a—half times the size of
Holland, once the backward Trucial
States, now in their 16th year as a
federation. Where else is the indigenous
local inhabitant outnumbered six to one
by expatriates? Where else is it
unsurprising to see goats transported on
the back seat of a shoWroom-fresh
Mercedes? My address was the Dubai
Hilton without which the streets of
Dubai would be littered with corpses.
Cause of death? Boredom. Transﬁxed by
a yawn. When you’ve ﬁnished counting
the ﬂies, thereis nothing else to save you.

In the early years of this century 6,936
pearl divers made a living from Dubai
waters; then, in the 19305, Japan
captured the market with cultured
pearls, leaving Dubai ignominiously to
shifting desert sands and to the whims of
shiftless British overseers. Two things
eventually happened: Britain pulled out
in 1971, and the Emirates struck oil.
Both were mixed blessings. Sheikh
Shakhbut, the former ruler, was so
apprehensive about the effect of wealth
on Islamic traditions that he is said to
have hoarded bank-notes in a room in
his fortress until mice nibbled their way
through a fortune. This atavism lost him
his sheikhdom, power being transferred
to his younger brother, Sheikh Zayed,
architect and ﬁrst president of the
federation. Shakhbut, an old man, lives
in the oasis of Al Ain, his three

predecessors having been assisted on

their journey to Allah’s bosom by.
assassination.

I crossed and re-crossed the Dubai
Creek by abra, water-taxis. It seemed a
very put-together city. It didn’t feel like
Arabia; it didn’t feel like anywhere I
knew or deeply cared to know. At the

Hilton beach club I heard an English.
company wife complaining that what she

really missed was Marmite. I was taken
to a dinner party given by Bill and Jean, a
nice couple who had faithfully re-
produced Esher in their air-conditioned,
hermetically-Sealed villa. Both worked
long hours, six days a week. “It’s all
free,” Bill said. “The house, car, no
income-tax. We don’t spend a penny of
our salaries; when we’ve saved enough
we’ll go home and start something.”
Impiously, an old nursery songhummed
through my head: “When, little hen,

.13, _.

 

RELAV2 '

’ S ki

 

 

- - On visiting the Arab Emirates, Michael Watkins faces
' ' - - § death from yawning, and joins in a feast of fresh goat

STEPHEN MARKESON

.un.
......

 

 

  
  

Buraimi
.0

.......

)
, El Ain
UNITED ARAB .
EMIRATES OMAN

‘ 50 miles
G:
SAUDI ARABIA ~\

 

 

 

 

 

 

when, when, when, will you lay me an
eg for my tea.”

The road to Abu Dhabi was strewn
with wrecked cars, the landscape charred
'like overcooked omelette. There was
nothing to stop for, to look at. The city
itself was amazing. Twenty years ago the
bedouin camped here, ﬁshermen lived in
tents, building dhows; today a burnished
sun is refracted off marble and glass
surfaces, off aluminium. It had nothing
to do with the Arabian Nights. They say
that Sheikh Zayed is a true bedouin,
ﬂying his hawks, riding with the best of
them, joining the circle at the camp ﬁre.
Then why all this?

The why is the emergence of a welfare

state of hospitals and education. The

cost, unless I am wildly off the mark, is a
cynical tolerance of Western ideals. Yet
there are signs that the party is flagging.
The petro-dollar is less shiny than it was,
the Gulf War won’t go away.

.Ifyou look at a map you’ll see that E1
Ainiis about as far as you can et without

few kilometres from the oasis _ town I

.. ,, (7"

Ships of the desert: Acrowded river taxi, or abra, takes travellers across t

pulled up at a desert camel race, 40 or so
camels to the “ﬁeld”, ridden by boys no
more than 10 years old. Everyone was

there, from machine-gun guarded prince. ,

lings down; but no foreigners, I’m sure I
was the only one -— and certainly no
women. It was here that ﬁnally I inhaled
Arabia.

n the .seventh day an
alternative diety decreed:
let the earth bring forth a
Hilton in the desert, and
God saw” that it was good.
It was good, too, with its
tennis courts, health club, posters

 

advertising Billy Connolly’s personal"

appearance, and a strapping blonde PR
girl who wanted to know if I’d like to see
the ice-rink. No, I did not want to see the

ice-rink, I said, but you don’t happen to '

have a four-wheel drive . . .

_ W W 1* aucr ‘ . .s, a‘: «- :"va ‘. . .5,

 

he Dub

  
 

Kn. ,» ~

 

 

 

 

 

 

ﬁnding handfuls of fossils. We stopped at
an oasis, teetering over planks above a
ravine perhaps 200 feet deep. We
stopped at a remote wad}, startinga ﬁre
to grill sausages, preparing to swnn in
chill water that tumbled from a waterfall.
It was one of earth’s empty quarters.
From somewhere or from nowhere,
three O'manis appeared dragging a goat.
Saluting us, they immersed themselves
in the pool, sharpening a knife. The goat
bleated for a Second, no longer, pumping
its bleed hard and rhythmically,_cloud-
ing the water. The Omanis skinning the
beast and invited us to share their meal;
it is the least that an Arab can offer.
Sinceit was obviouslythe thing to do,
I even Went to the ice-rink. In this ice--
rink is a door marked Praying Room. As
in each ”Hilton room, there is a sticker
With an arrow emblem painting towards

. . . , ecca.
. At Buraimi we slipped unobtrusiVely “ M
into Oman, legally or illegally, I’m not
sure; there were no frontier posts, just a i
. spilling into the Sultanate 0 Oman. A ‘road “DTPHIDS lumplly 10 Muscat.” We
stopped in the desert, looking for and? ”teaching Arabs the hi1

. Oh. yes, i gwc’ll complete their “infra-

:7'sti'l19ture’ﬁi ,i‘nstall the highest of high.

 

tech and . reg‘ood money for our pains;

A «t we: ckers to think we’re.
bu ‘d’ su of life.

’.\
r ., id.
,4.

mblest fact

  

    

   

. , d}“ﬁ.-v§u-”—a,-iu. .

 

 

      
  

 

I flew from Gatwick to Dubai with
British Caledonian in approximately
seven hours. £1,976 first class
return; Pex fares from £470 return.
The journey I made, with Hilton
lnternational’s assistance, was 900
kms by road. Hilton will tailor a
similar seven-day trip, their Arabian
Experience, for about £270 per
person (excluding air fares).
Enquiries from Hilton

international, Sovereign House, 212-
224 Shaftesbury Avenue, London
WCZH 8E0 (01-379 4828).

i would avoid self-drive: accidents
are numerous, an additional hazard
provided by stra ing camels,

which are difficu tto see on desert
roads and in sand-storms. Best
time: November to March. Summer
months can be unbearably hot

and humid. , ~

lsraeli stamps in your passport

are inadmissible to. U.A.E.
immigration aumorities. Tourists

., are net allowed to bring alcohol into

the Emirates.

‘ 44’“ ‘

 

 

 

 

>>-n

   




:

BRUCE HELIN

PHOTO

a“ x ‘ L
4 "*gge-fﬂq ‘

the ﬁnest in lightweight geodesic tents, backpacks, sleeping bags, and functional good-
looking clothing. Since performance is the key, all The North Face produc s are covered by N
a Full Lifetime Warranty

Write for our 48—page, full-color catalog and dealer listing THE NORTH FACE, Dept. AT 4, ACE.
1234 Fifth Street, Berkeley, California 94710 USA.

For those Who carry their homes on their backs, The North Face designs and manufactures ‘ HE

Clrclo #4 on reader service card.

 




FIELDSOSB

lOOTH CONGRESS

20 SESSION DZL1:314£4¢‘L¢/
5/)

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Mr. FIELDS (for himself and ) introduced the
following bill; which was referred to the Committee on

 

To prohibit the importation of African elephant ivory from any
country which does not have a population of African elephants
living in the wild, and for other purposes.

1 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives

2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

 

 




FIELDSO68

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “African Elephant Anti-
Poaching Act of 1988',
SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL DECLARATION OF PURPOSE AND POLICY.
(a) DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.--The purpose of this Act 15—-
(l) to ensure the continued existence of large and
healthy populations of African elephants;
(2) to eliminate the role of the United States in
creating world demand for African elephant ivory; and
(3) to encourage other nations to join in a worldwide
effort to stOp all trade in illegally obtained African
elephant ivory.
(b) CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS AND POLICY.--
(1) FINDINGS.--The Congress finds and declares that~~
(A) a drastic decline in populations of African
elephants has occurred in the countries of East
Africa;
(B) a gradual but steady decline in populations

of African elephants is taking place throughout most

of the other African countries which African

elephants inhabit;

(C) the main cause of this decline is the
widespread killing of African elephants by poachers
for the commercial value of their ivory tusks; and

(D) sport hunters are not part of the poaching

 

 

 

 




FIELDSO68
3

problem, are instrumental in protecting African
elephants, and provide economic incentives for
conservation of African elephants.
(2) POLICY.--It is the policy of the United States--

(A) to pursue actively through international
initiatives the establishment of effective controls
on the killing of African elephants;

(B) to pursue actively a ban on the international

trade in illegally obtained African elephant ivory;

and
(C) to provide appropriate forms of aid to
nations wishing to prevent the destruction of African
elephant habitat and the overexploitation of African
elephant populations.
SEC. 3. PROHIBITED ACTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.--Subject to Subsection (b), it is
unlawful--
(l) for any person to import into the United States
any African elephant ivory from any country which-—
(A) is not a member of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora;
(B) does not have a population of African
elephants living in the wild; or

(C) is not a part of the African Continent; and

 




FIELDSO68
4
(2) for any person to import into the United States
any African elephant ivory from Burundi.

(b) EXEMPTIONS 0F SPORT TROPHIES.--This Act shall not
prohibit the importation into the United States of African
elephant ivory from an African elephant that was legally
taken by sport hunting in a country, other than Burundi,
that--

(l) is a member of the Convention on International

Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora;

(2) has a population of African elephants living in
the wild; and
(3) is a part of the African Continent.
SEC. 4. PENALTIES.

(a) CIVIL PENALTIES.--

(1) IN GENERAL.--Any person who knowingly violates,

any provision of'this Act may be assessed a civil penalty
by the Secretary of not more than $10,000 for each
violation. No penalty may be assessed under this
subsection unless such person is given notice and
opportunity for a hearing with respect to such violation.
Each violation shall be a separate offense. Any such
civil penalty may be remitted or mitigated by the
Secretary. Upon any failure to pay a penalty assessed
under this subsection, the Secretary may request the

Attorney General to institute a civil action in a

 




FIELDSOSB

5
district court of the United States for any district in
which such person is found, resides, or transacts
business to collect the penalty and such court shall have
jurisdiction to hear and decide any such action. The
court shall hear such action on the record made before
the Secretary and shall sustain his action if it is
Supported by substantial evidence on the record
considered as a whole.

(2) PROCEEDING.--H arings held during proceedings for
the assessment of civil penalties authorized by paragraph
(l) of this subsection shall be conducted in accordance
with section 554 of title 5, United States Code. The
Secretary may issue subpoenas for the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of relevant
papers, books, and documents, and administer oaths.
Witnesses summoned shall be paid the same fees and
mileage that are paid to witnesses in the courts of the
United States. In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a
subpoena served upon any person pursuant to this.
paragraph, the district court of the United States for
any district in which such person is found or resides or

transacts business, upon application by the United States

and after notice to such person, shall have jurisdiction

to issue an order requiring such person to appear and

give testimony before the Secretary or to appear and

 




FIELDSOBB
6

produce documents before the Secretary, or both, and any

failure to obey such order of the court may be punished

by such court as a contempt thereof.

(b) CRIMINAL PENALTIES.--Any person who knowingly
violates any provision of this Act shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than $5,000 and not more than $20,000, or
imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.

(c) DISTRICT COURT JURISDICTION.--The several district

courts of the United States, including the courts enumerated

in section 460 of title 28, United States Code, shall have

jurisdiction over any actions arising under this Act. For the
purpose of this Act, American Samoa shall be included within
the judicial district of the District Court of the United
States for the District of Hawaii.

(a) RENARDs-AND CERTAIN INCIDENTAL EXPENSES.-—The
Secretary or the Secretary of the Treasury shall pay, from
sums received as penalties, fines, or forfeitures of property
for any violation of this Act or any regulation issued
hereunder, a reward to any person who furnishes information
which leads to an arrest, a criminal conviction, civil
penalty assessment, or forfeiture of property for any
violation of this Act or any regulation issued hereunder. The
amount of the reward, if any, is to be designated by the
Secretary or the Secretary of the Treasury, as appropriate.

Any officer or employee of the United States or any State or

 




FIELDSO68

l

7
local government who furnishes information or renders service
in the performance of his official duties as ineligible for
payment under this subsection.

SEC. 5. ENFORCEMENT.

(a) IN GENERAL.--This Act and any regulations or permits
issued pursuant thereto shall be enforced by the Secretary,
the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Secretary of the
Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, or all such
Secretaries. Each such Secretary may utilize by agreement,
with or without reimbursement, the personnel, services, and
facilities of any other Federal agency or any State agency
for purposes of enforcing this Act.

(b) ISSUANCE OF PROCESS.--The judges of the district
courts of the United States and the United States magistrates
may, within their respective jurisdictions, upon proper oath
or affirmation showing probable cause, issue such warrants or
other process as may be required for enforcement of this Act
and any regulation issued thereunder. .

(c)INSPECTIONS. ARRESTS. SEARCHES, AND SEIZURES.4-Any

person authorized by the Secretary, the Secretary of the

Treasury, or the Secretary of the Department in which the

Coast Guard is operating, to enforce this Act may detain for
inspection and inspect any package, crate, or other
container, including its contents, and all accompanying

documents, upon importation or exportation. Such person may

 




FIELDSO68
8

make arrests without a warrant for any violation of this Act
if he has reasonable grounds to believe that the person to be
arrested is committing the violation in his presence or view,
and may execute and serve any arrest warrant, search warrant,
or other warrant or civil or criminal process issued by any
officer or court of competent jurisdiction for enforcement of
this Act. Such person so authorized may search and seize,
with or without a warrant, as authorized by law. Any item so
seized shall be held by any person authorized by the
Secretary, the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Secretary of
the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating pending
disposition of civil or criminal proceedings, or the
institution of an action in rem for forfeiture of such item
pursuant to paragraph (4) of this subsection; except that the
Secretary may, in lieu of holding such fish, wildlife,
property, or item, permit the owner or consignee to post'a
bond or other surety satisfactory to the Secretary, but upon
forfeiture of any such property to the United States, or the
abandonment or waiver of any claim to any such property, it
shall be disposed of (other than by sale to the general
public) by the Secretary in such a manner, consistent with
the purposes of this Act, as the Secretary shall by
regulation prescribe.

(d) FORFEITURE.--

(1) FORFEITURE OF IVORY.--All African elephant ivory

 




FIELDSOEB
9
imported contrary to the-provisions of this Act, any
regulation made pursuant thereto, or any permit or
certificate issued hereunder shall be subject to
forfeiture to the United States.

(2) FORFEITURE OF MEANS OF TRANSPORTATION.--All
equipment, vessels, vehicles, aircraft, and other means
of transportation used to aid the taking, possessing,
selling, purchasing, offering for sale or purchase,
transporting, delivering, receiving, carrying, shipping,
exporting, or importing of any item in violation of this
Act or of any regulation made pursuant thereto, shall be
subject to forfeiture to the United States upon
conviction of a criminal violation pursuant to section

4(b).

(e) APPLICATION OF OTHER LAWS.—-

(1) IN GENERAL.--Subject to paragraph (2), all
provisions of law relating to the seizure, forfeiture,
and condemnation of a vessel for violation of the customs
laws, the disposition of such vessel or the proceeds from
the sale thereof, and the remission or mitigation of such
forfeiture, shall apply to the seizures and forfeitures
incurred, or alleged to have been incurred, under the
provisions of this Act, insofar as such provisions of law
are applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions

of this Act.

 




FIELDSO68
lO
(2) POWERS, RIGHTS, AND DUTIES UNDER CUSTOMS

LAWS.--All powers, rights, and duties conferred or

imposed by the customs laws upon any officer or employee

of the Treasury Department shall, for the purposes of
this Act, be exercised or performed by the Secretary or
by such persons as he may designate.

(f) INJUNCTIONS.--The Attorney General may seek to enjoin
any person who is alleged to be in violation of any provision
of this Act or regulation issued under authority thereof.
SEC. 6. REGULATIONS.

The Secretary, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the
Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is
operating, may issue such regulations as may be appropriate
to enforce this Act, and charge reasonable fees for expenses
to the Government connected with permits or certificates
authorized by this Act including processing applications and

reasonable inspections, and with the transfer, board,

handling, or storage of fish or wildlife or plants and

evidentiary items seized and forfeited under this Act. All
such fees collected pursuant to this subsection shall be
deposited in the Treasury to the credit of the appropriation
which is current and chargeable for the cost of furnishing
the services. Appropriated funds may be expended pending
reimbursement from parties in interest.

SEC. 7. ADMINISTRATION.

 




FIELDSO68
ll

The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the
Treasury and the Secretary of the department in which the
Coast Guard is operating, shall administer this Act.

SEC. 8. COORDINATION WITH OTHER LAWS.

Nothing in this Act shall be construed as superseding or
limiting in any manner the functions and responsibilities of
the Secretary under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 153l et seq.) or of the Secretary of the Treasury
under the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1202 et seq.).
SEC. 9. PREEMPTION.

Any State law or regulation which applies with respect

the importation of raw or worked African elephant ivory or

interstate or foreign commerce involving such ivory is void

to the extent that it may effectively--
(1) permit what is prohibited by this Act or by any
regulation issued under this Act, or
(2) prohibit what is authorized by this Act or by any
regulation issued under this Act.
SEC. 10. DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this Act--
(1) AFRICAN-ELEPHANT.--The term “elephant" means
any animal of the species Loxodonta africana.
(2) AFRICAN ELEPHANT IVORY.--The term “African
elephant ivory" means ivory from an African elephant.

(3) SECRETARY.-—The term “Secretary" means the

 




FIELDSOSB
12

Secretary of the Interior.

(4) STATE.--The term"‘State" means any State of the

United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the
United States.

(5) UNITED STATES.--The term “United States", when

used in a geographical context, includes all States.

 




ONE HUNDREDTH CONGRESS , ' I , . -‘ CHIEF COUNSEL
" " .‘I . - EDMUND B. WELCH

-.—¢-——

WALTER B. JONES. NORTH CAROLINA, CHAIRMAN I CHIEF rLEW
MARIO BIAGGI. NEW YORK ROBERT w. DAVIS, MICHIGAN _ ‘ r
BARBARA L. -AVAS
GLENN M. ANDERSON. CALIFORNIA DDN YOUNG, ALASKA

GERRY E. STUDDS, MASSACHUSETTS NORMAN F. LENT, NEW YORK ’ M'NOR'TY 5”" D'RECTOR
CARROLL HUBBARD, JR.. KENTUCKY NORMAN D. SHUMWAY, CALIFORNIA 01152 Of 338 resentatlhes GEORGE 0- FENCE
SVDLNLBD‘NKER, WASHINGTON JACK FIELDS, TEXAS ° °

IA J. HUGHES. NEW JERSEY CLAUDINE SCHNEIDER. RHODE ISLAND ' M'NOR'TY CH'” COUNSEL
MIKE LOWRY, WASHINGTON HERBERT H. BATEMAN, VIRGINIA Qtﬂmtmttke 011 DUNCAN CI SMITH '”
EARL HUTTD. FLORIDA JIM SAXTON, NEW JERSEY

W.J. (BILLY) TAUZIN, LOUISIANA JOHN R. MILLER. WASHINGTON ' h ' '
THOMAS M. FOGLIETTA. PENNSYLVANIA HELEN DELICH BENTLEY, MARYLAND wertbam mantle an fisherles
FOSNNDISSMO. HERTEL. MICHIGAN HOWARD COBLE, NORTH CAROLINA
N, MARYLAND MAC SWEENEY, TEXAS ' ’ '

WILLA. 0. “IRS... “No.3 JOSEPH .. 0.0mm. NEW Room 1334. Iongmortb 3801152 09mm ﬁutlhmg
:SBERT A. BDRSKI, PENNSYLVANIA CURT WELDON. PENNSYLVANIA ,

OMAS R. CARPER, DELAWARE PATRICIA SAIKI, HAWAII w b ﬂm: 20515—6230
DOUGLAS H. BOSCO, CALIFORNIA WALLY HERGER, CALIFORNIA as [ngtun’

ROBIN TALLON, SOUTH CAROLINA JIM BUNNING, KENTUCKY
ROBERT LINDSAY THOMAS. GEORGIA

SOLOMON P. ORTIz. TEXAS

CHARLES E. BENNETT. FLORIDA May 2 7 r l 9 8 8
THOMAS J. MANTDN. NEW YORK

OWEN B. PICKETT. VIRGINIA

JOSEPH E. BRENNAN, MAINE
GEORGE J. HOCHBRUECKNER. NEW YORK

Dear Doctor Lieberman:

On behalf of the House Subcommittee on Fisheries and Wildlife
Conservation and the Environment, I would like to invite you to
participate in a hearing on June 22nd, on elephant conservation
legislation pending before the Subcommittee.

I have enclosed two bills designed to reduce the decline in African
elephant populations through the regulation of importation of elephant
products into the U.S. The first, H.R. 2999, was introduced by
Congressman Beilenson last year. The second, designated as a
Committee Print, represents an alternative legislative proposal
developed by staff to generate further discussion. The Subcommittee
would be very interested in your views on each of these proposals. We
also ask that_you submit a one page summary of the key components that
you believe should be included in elephant protection legislation.

Committee procedures require that at least 75 copies of your written
statement be delivered to the Subcommittee office on June 20th in
order to provide the Members of the Subcommittee with the opportunity
to review your statement prior to the hearing. Please deliver them to
the Subcommittee office in House Annex II, room 543. The Committee
procedures also require that your oral testimony be limited to five
minutes; however, your written testimony will be included in its
entirety into the formal hearing record.

I have asked my staff to work with you on the details of the hearing,
and I look forward to your participation. If you have any questions,
please contact Ms. Gina De Ferrari at 226-3533.

Sinéerely,v}f

f Chairman
Subcommit ee on Fisheries and
Wildlife ‘onservation and the
Environment

Dr. Sue Lieberman
Associate Director of Wildlife and Environment Division

Humane Society of the United States
2100 L Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20037

Enclosures

 




May 19, 1988

Summary of H.R. 2999, The Elephant Protection Act
y§ponsored by Rep. Anthony Beilenson (D-CA)

Sec. 1: Designates short title, "The Elephant Protection Act"

Sec. 2: (a) Declaration of Purpose-~to insure the continued
existence of large and healthy populations of all species of
elephants by eliminating-the U.S. role in the world demand for
elephant products and by encouraging other nations to join in
such a ban;

(b) Congressional Findings and Policy--finds and
declares a drastic decline in populations of elephants due to
widespread poaching for ivory, and establishes a policy of
actively pursuing a ban on ivory trade and aiding nations wishing
to prevent this decline.

Sec. 3: Directs the President to propose to CITES that all trade
in elephant products be suspended by the Parties until data
demonstrate that large and healthy elephant populations have been
reestablished.

Sec. 4: PROHIBITS: (1) import into or export from the U.S. of
any elephant product; (2) possession, shipment, receipt, or sale
of elephant products; (3) sale in interstate or foreign commerce
of any elephant product; (4) making any false record of the
contents of any shipment if such shipment contains any elephant
product.

Sec. 5: Delegates administration of the act to the Secretary of
the Interior (in consultation with the Department of the Treasury
and the Coast Guard); gives Secretary authority to exempt from
the act, and grant a permit for "any act otherwise prohibited by
this Act for scientific purposes or to enhance the propagation of
the elephant Species", and establishes a procedure for inviting
public commentary on each application for such permits.

Sec. 6: Sets civil penalties at not more than $10,000; criminal
penalties at $5,000 to $20,000 and/or one year in prison; rewards
at one—half the civil or criminal fine paid up to $2,500.
Subjects to forfeiture any item prohibited by the act, and any
vehicle used to transport such item. Also provides for citizens
suits to enjoin any person alleged to be in violation of the act,
and to compel the Secretary to apply the prohibitions set forth
by the Act.

Sec. 7: Preempts state laws which apply to elephant products.

Sec. 8: Defines the term "elephant" as the species Loxodonta
africana or Elephas maximus;"elephant product" as any part of an
elephant or any product composed in whole or in part of any part
of an elephant; also defines other relevant terms.

 




Summary of Committee Print
TITLE I
Section 101. CONGRESSIONAL DECLARATION OF PURPOSE

This section states the Congressional purpose, findings, and
policy. It notes that

~African Elephant populations have declined significantly in
recent years,

-the illegal ivory trade threatens the continued existence of
those populations,

-an international system has been established to control that
trade through an international agreement,

-many African countries do not have sufficient resources to
conserve their elephant populations, and

-the U.S. is one of the world's largest markets for ivory
products, and shares the responsibility for supporting measures
to stop the illegal trade, including financial support for the
management of elephant populations.

Section 102. DEFINITIONS

This section contains definitions of terms used in the Act. Its
definition of "elephant" limits the bill's scope to African
elephants.

Section 103. AFRICAN WILDLIFE CONSERVATION COMMITTEE

This section establishes an advisory committee of experts on
African wildlife conservation to evaluate elephant conservation
proposals for which funding is sought pursuant to section 104.

Section 104. ELEPHANT CONSERVATION PROJECTS

This section authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to approve
qualified elephant conservation projects and establishes criteria
to determine which elephant conservation projects should be
funded under this act. It provides that they must provide sound
scientific information on the status of elephant populations or
habitat, aid anti-poaching activities, or otherwise implement
elephant conservation measures. It further requires that annual
reports be submitted to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service on
projects undertaken pursuant to this Act.

Section 105. ELEPHANT CONSERVATION TRUST FUND

This section provides that the following funds will be deposited
into the Elephant Conservation Trust Fund established in title
III: taxes on imports of elephant ivory, civil penalties for
”violations of this Act, and funds appropriated by Congress. It
also provides that the fund may be used for elephant conservation
projects approved pursuant to section 104, and for the
administration of the fund by the federal government.

 




Section 106. ANNUAL REPORTS

This section requires the Fish and Wildlife Service to report
annually to Congress on the status of the African elephant, on
the elephant conservation projects funded under this legislation,
and on the extent to which the international ivory control system
is functioning effectively to control the illegal ivory trade.

Section 107. LICENSING

This section would require that all importers of ivory into the
U.S. must be licensed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

Section 108. COORDINATION WITH OTHER LAWS

This section provides that nothing in this Act shall limit the
responsibilities of the Secretary of the Interior under the
Endangered Species Act.

Section 109. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

This section authorizes the appropriation of $5 million annually
for elephant conservation activities authorized by this Act.

TITLE II. SELECTIVE IMPORT BAN

Section 201. MORATORIA ON IMPORTATION OF AFRICAN ELEPHANT
PRODUCTS

This section requires the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to
solicit information on the elephant conservation programs of all
African ivory producing nations. It further requires the Service
to review that information and to identify those countries that
do not have an effective program for the management of elephants.
That determination would be based on 5 criteria established in
this section. The importation of ivory from those identified
nations would be banned.

This section would also ban the importation of ivory from
intermediary countries that import ivory from the nations
identified by the Fish and Wildlife Service as not having
effective elephant management programs. The ban on ivory from the
intermediary countries would take effect one year after the date
of the ban on the ivory producing country.

This section also establishes a system whereby individuals can
petition the Fish and Wildlife Service to ban the importation of
ivory from individual countries, and requires that the Service
take prompt action on such petitions.

 




Section 202. VIOLATIONS

This section delineates the civil and criminal penalties for
violations of this Act and provides that penalties collected may
be used to pay rewards to individuals who furnish information
that leads to a civil violation or a conviction. Penalties that
are not used for rewards would be used for elephant conservation

in African countries.

Title III. AMENDMENTS TO INTERNAL REVENUE CODE

Section 301. IMPOSITION OF EXCISE TAX ON ELEPHANT IVORY

This section would impose a tax of $5/lb on unworked elephant
ivory, $lO/lb on worked elephant ivory, and $2 per square foot on
elephant skins imported into the 0.8.

Section 302. ELEPHANT CONSERVATION TRUST FUND

This section would establish a trust fund into which the import
tax on elephant products would be deposited. The fund would be
available for expenditures on elephant conservation programs in
African countries, as provided in section 104. This section also
provides for appropriations into the trust fund.

 




Committtee Print

AFRICAN ELEPHANT CONSERVATION ACT
May 27, 1988

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. This Act may be cited as the "African
Elephant Conservation Act."

TITLE I
SECTION 101. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

(a) PURPOSE.—- The purpose of this Act is to perpetuate
large and healthy populations of African elephants.

(b) FINDINGS.-- The Congress finds that:

(l) Elephant populations in Africa have declined by an
estimated 30% since 1980.

(2) The high level of illegal ivory trade is a major
cause of this decline and threatens the continued existence of
the African elephant.

(3) The African elephant is listed as threatened
under the Endangered Species Act and is likely to become
endangered if this decline is not reversed. “

(4) In response to the significant illegal poaching of
African elephants, the parties to the Convention on the
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora (CITES) established a quota and marking system designed
to curtail the illegal trade and to encourage African nations to
manage and conserve their elephant populations.

(5) This system, called the CITES Ivory Control
System, entered into force recently and should be allowed to
continue in force for a reasonable period of time to asseSs its
effectiveness in curtailing the illegal trade in African elephant
ivory.

(6) Although some African countries have effective
elephant conservation programs, many do not have
sufficient resources to properly manage and conserve
their elephant populations.

(7) The United States, as a party to CITES and one
of the world's largest markets for finished ivory and
other products from the African elephant, shares responsibility
for supporting and implementing measures to stop the illegal
trade in ivory and to provide for the conservation of the
elephant.

(8) Those that purchase ivory and other elephant
products should bear a portion of the costs associated with the a
management of elephant populations and revenues generated through

a tax on €19Phant products should be used to fund elephant g
conservation programs. mewww”

(c) POLICY.~— It is the policy of the United States to:

 




(1) Assist in the conservation of the African elephant
by supporting the conservation programs of African countries and
the CITES Secretariat; and

~« (2) Provide financial resources for these programs
proportionate to the U. S. share of trade in African elephanEf

products. ' wwﬁ

SECTION 102. DEFINITIONS.

(a) The term "elephant" means any animal of the
species Loxodonta africana.

(b) The term "raw elephant ivory" means any African
elephant ivory to which no process other than polishing has been
applied.

(c) The term "processed ivory product" means any elephant
ivory other than raw elephant ivory.

(d) The term "elephant skin" means any part of raw or
cured African elephant hide or skin.

(e) The term "elephant skin product" means any item
which consists in whole or in part of raw or cured
African elephant hide or skin howsoever tanned, altered, sewn or
combined with other materials.

(f) The term "ivory producing nations" means any
African nation that is party to CITES or that participates in the
CITES Ivory Control System and has entire or partial populations
of African elephants within its territory.

SECTION 103. AFRICAN WILDLIFE CONSERVATION COMMITTEE.

(a) GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES.-- The Secretary,
acting through the Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service,
shall establish the African Wildlife Conservation Committee
(hereinafter referred to as the Committee) within 90 days after
the date of enactment of this Act. The Committee shall.

— (1) review and provide written recommendations on
-propoSals submitted to the Secretary for elephant conservation
projects as provided for in section 104(b);

(2) to the extent possible, rank all project proposals
Submitted to the Secretary in order of importance as provided for
in section 104(b); and

(3) assist the Secretary in the preparation of the
annual report to Congress regarding the Elephant Conservation
Fund and the status of the African elephant as provided for in
section 106.

. (b) MEMBERSHIP_OF THE COMMITTEE.-- The Secretary, acting
through the Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service, shall
appoint 6 members to serve on the Committee. The members of the
Committee must be knowledgeable and experienced in African
elephant conservation, biology or international wildlife trade.

 




(c) COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.-- The Secretary shall provide
administrative and support services to the Committee members from
the administrative funds available under section 105 of this Act.
Committee members shall not receive any compensation or expenses
for serving on the Committee. The provisions of the Act of
October 6, 1972, (5 App. I, U.S.C. l-lS) shall not apply to the
African Wildlife Conservation Committee established under this
section.

SECTION 104. ELEPHANT CONSERVATION PROJECTS.

(a) PROJECT PROPOSAL.-- Any African government agency
responsible for elephant conservation and protection, the CITES
Secretariat or any organization or qualified individual with
experience in elephant conservation may submit to the Secretary a
proposal for conducting research upon or conserving or managing
elephant populations.' Each proposal shall contain:

(1) the name of the organization responsible for
conducting the project;

(2) a succinct statement of the need for and purposes
of the project;

(3) a description of the qualifications of the
individuals who will be conducting the project;

(4) an estimate of the funds and time required to
complete the project;

(5) evidence of the support of the governmental
entities for the conduct of the project where such support may be

important for the success of the project; and

(6) any other information the Secretary determines to
be necessary or appropriate for evaluating the eligibility of the
project for funding under this Act.

(b) PROJECT REVIEW.-- (1) Each proposal submitted to the
Secretary under this section shall be reviewed by the African
Conservation Advisory Committee which shall advise the Secretary
on whether the prOposal will directly benefit the African
elephant populations of one or more elephant ivory producing
nations and is consistent with the criteria in subsection (d) of
this section. The Committee shall provide the Secretary with its
review and recommendations within three months of receiving the
proposal from the Secretary.

(2) Where possible, the Committee shall provide to the
Secretary a ranking in order of importance of the projects which,
in the Committee's judgement, satisfy the requirements of this
section and the purpose of this Act.

(0) PROJECT APPROVAL.-- The Secretary shall review each
proposal to determine if it meets the criteria under subsection
(d) and otherwise merits funding under this Act. In deciding if
the project warrants funding, the Secretary shall take into
account the recommendations of the Committee. Within six months
after receiving a project proposal under this section, the
Secretary shall approve or disapprove of the proposal and shall
provide written notification of the decision to the project

 




applicant and to the country within which the project may be
conducted.

(d) CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL.-- Each proposal funded under this

Act shall aid African ivory producing nations in developing or
enhancing elephant conservation programs by:

(1) providing reasonable and sound scientific
information on habitat condition and carrying capacity,
total elephant numbers and pOpulation trends, and annual
reproduction and mortality in a usable form;

(2) aiding efforts to ensure any taking of African
elephants is effectively controlled and monitored;

(3) aiding African elephant anti-poaching activities;
or

(4) implementing long-term conservation programs to
provide for healthy, sustainable elephant populations over time.

(e) PROJECT REPORTING.-- Each entity which receives funds
for an approved project under this Act shall submit an annual
report to the Fish and Wildlife Service, and such reports shall
include all relevant statistics concerning the elephant
populations in the affected country and other necessary
information to evaluate the progress and success of the project.

SECTION 105. ELEPHANT CONSERVATION TRUST FUND.

(a) FUNDING SOURCES.-— The Secretary shall deposit into the
Elephant Conservation Trust Fund established by section 9511 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the following
funds:

(1) Amounts that may be appropriated or credited to
the Fund under section 9511 or 9602(b) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended; and

(2) All civil penalties that may be recovered
pursuant to section 202 of this Act.

(3) Amounts that may be appropriated pursuant to the
authorization in section 109 of this Act.

(b) USES OF THE FUND.-- (1) An amount equal to all revenues
accruing each fiscal year from the tax imposed by title III is
authorized to be appropriated and made available until expended ,
for elephant conservation projects and activities approved by the,”
Secretary under section 104, above. ~M/ﬂ

(2) An amount not to exceed 6% of the annual revenues
of the Fund is authorized to be appropriated for any federal
agencies responsible for administrating such Fund and collecting
the tax revenues under title III of this Act. Such agencies
shall include, but are not limited to, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service.

 




SECTION 106. ANNUAL REPORTS.

The Secretary shall submit an annual report to Congress
regarding_the African Wildlife Conservation Fund and the status
of the African elephant. Such report shall be prepared in
consultation with the African Elephant Conservation Advisory
Committee and such other entities as it deems appropriate. The
report shall include the following:

(a) the amounts collected under the Fund;

(b) administrative costs associated with the Fund;

(c) the expenditures made under the Fund;

(d) a summary of the types and evaluation of the projects
funded; and -

(e) an evaluation of the current African elephant
population and whether the CITES Ivory Control System is
functioning effectively to control the illegal trade in ivory.

SECTION 107. LICENSING.

Section 9(d) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, (16
U.S.C. 1538(d)) governing the import and exports of fish and
wildlife, is amended by --

(a) inserting in the first sentence of paragraph (2) after
the phrase "paragraph (1)" the following: ”or a license under
paragraph (3)";

(b) inserting the following new paragraph (3):

"(3) Any person subject to the jurisdiction of the

United States engaged in the commercial import of raw or
processed elephant ivory into or out of the United States,
regardless of the value of such ivory, must have a license
granting permission for such import. The Secretary of Interior
may assess reasonable fees for such licenses to reflect the
administrative costs of such licensing and the costs to the
,Secretary associated with the enforcement and implementation of
the CITES Ivory Control SyStem.", and

(c) redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4).

SECTION 108. COORDINATION WITH OTHER LAWS.

Except as provided under section 107, nothing in this Act
shall be construed as superseding or limiting in any manner the
functions and responsibilities of the Secretary of Interior under
the Endangered Species Act of_l973 (16 U.S.C. 1531).

SECTION 109. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

 




There are authorized to be appropriated not to exceed ..r
$5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1989, 1990, and 1991 for the 5;
activities authorized by this Act. A

TITLE II

SECTION 201. MORATORIA ON IMPORTATION OF AFRICAN ELEPHANT
PRODUCTS.

(a) CALL FOR INFORMATION. -- Upon enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall issue a call for information on the elephant
conservation programs of each African ivory producing nation by
issuing a notice in the Federal Register and by written request
to each African ivory producing nation.

 

(b) REVIEW OF CONSERVATION PROGRAMS.-— The Secretary shall
review the elephant conservation programs of each African country
with elephant populations to determine the adequacy of those
programs based upon the criteria in subsection (c). In
conducting the review, the Secretary shall consult with -
organizations and individuals with expertise in African elephant
conservation.

(c) MORATORIA ON PRODUCERS.-- Within one year after
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall, after providing
notice and an opportunity for public comment, impose a moratorium
on the importation of any raw or processed elephant ivory from
any African ivory producing country if —-

(l) the Secretary determines that such nation has no
effective program for the conservation of elephants based upon a
finding that:

(A) such conservation program is not based upon
sound scientific information on habitat condition and carrying
capacity, total elephant numbers and population trends and annual
reproduction and mortality;

(B) the taking of elephants in such nation is not
effectively controlled and monitored;

(C) such nation has not submitted its raw ivory
export quota to the CITES Secretariat by January 1 of the quota
year;

(D) its raw ivory export quota is not determined on
the basis of information referred to in subparagraph (A) of this
subsection, or does not take into consideration poached and
domestically consumed raw ivory; or

(B) such nation has exported amounts of raw ivory
which substantially exceed its raw ivory export quota as
provided for under the CITES Ivory Control System, or

(2) the Secretary has not, without just cause,
received sufficient information from the African country on which
to make a determination of whether such nation has an effective
program for the conservation of elephants.

(d) MORATORIA ON INTERMEDIARIES.—- The Secretary shall
impose a moratorium on the import of any elephant product from

 




any intermediary country if the Secretary determines that such
intermediary country --

(l) is importing raw or processed elephant ivory from
any nation subject to a moratorium under subsection (c) after one
year from the imposition of the moratorium; or

- (2) is not in substantial compliance with the CITES
Ivory Control System, as determined by the Secretary.

(e) SUSPENSION OF MORATORIUM.-- The Secretary shall suspend
any moratorium imposed under subsection (c) or (d) if, after
notice and public comment, the Secretary determines that the
reasons for imposing the moratorium are no longer valid.

(f) EXPIRATION.-- Any moratorium imposed under subsection
(c) or (d) shall automatically expire four years after the date
on which it was imposed unless, prior to the expiration of such
four-year period, the Secretary, after notice in the Federal
Register and opportunity for public comment thereon, makes a
finding that the requirements for such a moratorium continue to
be met and the moratorium should be extended.

(9) PETITION.-— Any person may at any time submit a petition
in writing requesting that the Secretary impose or revoke a
moratorium under this section. The petition shall include
whatever information may be necessary to support the petition.
The Secretary shall publish a notice in the Federal Register of
the receipt of the petition and provide an opportunity for the
public to comment upon it. The Secretary shall rule on a
petition no later than 90 days after the close of the public
comment period on it.

 

(h) SAVINGS PROVISION.—- The authority conferred by this
section is in addition to any authority the Secretary of the
Interior has with respect to controlling the trade in elephant
products under the Endangered Species Act, and nothing herein
shall derogate or otherwise interfere with his authority under
that Act.

SECTION 202. PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.

(a) CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS.-- Any person who knowingly imports
any elephant product from a country for which a moratorium is in
effect pursuant to section 201 shall, upon conviction, be fined
not less than $12,000 and not more than $25,000 or imprisoned for
not more than one year, or both.

(b) CIVIL VIOLATIONS.-- Any person who imports any elephant
product from a country for which a moratorium is in effect
pursuant to section 201 may be assessed a civil penalty by the
.Secretary of not more than $50,0000 for each such violation.
Each violation shall be a separate offense.

(0) USE OF PENALTIES.—— Penalties collected under this title
may be used to pay rewards pursuant to subsection (d), and funds

 




not so utilized shall be deposited into the African Wildlife
Conservation Trust Fund established by section 9511 of the
Internal Revenue Code, as amended.

(d) REWARDS.-- Upon the recommendation of the Secretary,
the Secretary of the Treasury may pay an amount up to one-half of
the criminal or civil penalty or fine paid, but not to exceed
$25,000, to any person who furnishes information which leads to a
civil penalty or a criminal conviction under this Act. Any
officer or employee of the United States or of any State or local
government who furnishes information or renders service in the
performance of his official duties shall not be eligible for

payment under this section.

 




586013

TITLEIII--AMENDMENTS OF INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986
SEC..301. IMPOSITION OF EXCISE TAX ON ELEPHANT IVORY, ETC.
(a) IN GENERAL.--Chapter 36 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 (relating to certain other excise taxes) is amended
by inserting after subchapter A the following new subchapter:
“Subchapter B--Certain Elephant Products

:ISec. 4471. Imposition of tax.
Sec. 4472. Definitions and special rules.

“szc. 4471. IMPOSITION or TAX.

“(a) GENERAL RULE.--There is hereby imposed a tax on any
of the following articles entered into the United States for
consumption, use or warehousing:

“(1) Any elephant ivory.
“(2) Any elephant skin or product thereof.

“(b) RATE OF TAX.--The rate of the tax imposed by
subsection (a) shall be--

“(1) $5 per pound of raw elephant ivory,
“(2) $10 per pound of processed elephant ivory, and
“(3) $2 per square foot of any elephant skin or
product thereof.

“(c) LIABILITY FOR TAX.--The tax imposed by subsection
(a) shall be paid by the person entering the article for
consumption, use, or warehousing.

“(d) EXCEPTION FOR LIVE ELEPHANTs.--Tne tax imposed by

subsection (a) shall not apply to any article entered into

the United States as part of a live elephant.

 




'SBGOI3
2

\

‘SEC. 4472. DEFINITIONS AND SPECIAL RULES,

“(a) DEFINITIONS.-—For purposes of this chapter--

“(1) ELEPHANT IVORY.-- ‘

“(A) RAW ELEPHANT IVORY.--The term ‘raw elephant
ivory. means any elephant ivory to which no process
other than polishing has been applied.

“(3) PROCESSED ELEPHANT IVORY.--The term
:processed elephant ivory' means any elephant ivory
other than raw elephant ivory.

“(2) UNITED STATES.--The term ‘United States' has
the meaning given such term by section 4612(a)(4).

“(b) SPECIAL RULES.--

“(1) FRACTIONS OF A POUND. ETC.--In the case of a
fraction of a pound or square foot, the tax imposed by
section 4471 shall be the same fraction of the amount of
such tax imposed on a whole pound or square foot, as the
case may be.

“(2) DISPOSITIONS OF REVENUES FROM PUERTO RICO AND
THE VIRGIN ISLANDS.--The provisions of subsections (a)(3)
and (b)(3) of section 7652 shall not apply to any tax
imposed by section 4471."

(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.--The table of subchapters for
chapter 36 of such Code is amended by inserting after the
item relating to subchapter A the following new item:

“Subchapter 8. Certain elephant products."

 




'SBGOl3
3
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.--The amendments made by this section
shall take effect on the lst day of the lst calendar month
which begins more than 30 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act.
SEC. 302. ELEPHANT CONSERVATION TRUST FUND.

(a) [N GENERAL.--Subchapter A~of chapter 98 of the.

Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to trust fund code)

is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new

section:
“SEc. 9511. ELEPHANT CONSERVATION TRUST FUND.

“(a) CREATION OF TRUST FUND.--There is established in
the Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known as
the ‘Elephant Conservation Trust Fund', consisting of such
amounts as may be appropriated or credited to such Trust Fund
as provided in this section or section 9602(b).

“(b) TRANSFERS T0 TRUST FUND.--There are hereby
appropriated to the Elephant Conservation Trust Fund amounts
equivalent to the taxes received in the Treasury under
section 447l (relating to tax on certain elephant products).

“(c) EXPENDITURES.--Amounts in the Elephant Conservation
Trust Fund shall be available, as provided in appropriation
Acts. only for purposes of making expenditures to carry out
title I of the African Elephant Conservation Act (as in
effect on the date of the enactment of this section).

“(d) BORRowaG AUTHORITY.--

 




4
‘V(l) IN GENERAL.--There are authorized to be
appropriated to the Elephant Conservation Trust Fund, as
repayable advances, such sums as may be necessary to
carry out the purposes of such Trust Fund.

“(2) LIMITATION 0N AMOUNT OUTSTANDING.--The maximum

aggregate amount of repayable advances to the Elephant
Conservation Trust Fund which is outstanding at any one
time shall not exceed #4. 000, 000.

“(3) REPAYMENT 0F ADVANCES.--

“(A) IN GENERAL.--Advances made to the Elephant

Conservation Trust Fund shall be repaid, and interest
on such advances shall be paid, to the general fund
of the Treasury when the Secretary determines that
moneys are available for such purposes in such Fund.

“(B) FINAL REPAYMENT.--No advance shall be made
to the Elephant Conservation Trust Fund after

, and all advances to such Fund shall be

repaid on or before such date.

“(c) RATE OF INTEREST.--Interest on advances

made pursuant to this subsection shall be determined
in accordance with section 9509(d)(3)(C)."

(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.--The table of sections for such

"subchapter A is amended by adding at the end thereof the

following new item:

‘Sec. 9511. Elephant Conservation Trust Fund.”

 




FIELDSOGB

[Discussion Draft]
June 13, 1988

1031M CONGRESS
D SESSION H R

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Mr. FIELDS (for himself and ) introduced the
following bill; which was referred to the Committee on

 

 

To prohibit the importation of elephant ivory from any ountry
which does not have a population of elephants living in the
wild.

1 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives

2 of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

 




FIELDSOSB

1 SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “African Elephant Anti-
Poaching Act of 1988"

SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL DECLARATION OF PURPOSE AND POLICY.

(a) DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.--The purpose of this Act is--

(1) to ensure the continued existence of large and
healthy populations of all species of elephants;

(2) to eliminate the role of the United States in
creating world demand for elephant ivory; and

(3) to encourage other nations to join in an effort
to stop all trade in illegally obtained elephant ivory.
(b) CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS AND POLICY.--

(1) FINDINGS.--The Congress finds and declares that--

(A) a drastic decline in populations of elephants
has occurred in the countries of East Africa;

(B) a gradual but steady decline in populations
of elephants is taking place throughout most of the
other African countries which elephants inhabit; and

(C) the main cause of this decline is the
widespread killing of elephants by poachers for the
commercial value of their ivory tusks.

(2) POLICY.--It is the policy of the United States--

(A) to pursue actively through international
initiatives the establishment of effective controls

on the killing of elephants;

 




FIELDSOGB
3
(B) to pursue actively a ban on the international
trade in illegally obtained elephant ivory; and
(C) to provide appropriate forms of aid to
nations wishing to prevent the destruction of
elephant habitat and the overexploitation of elephant

populations.

SEC. 3. PROHIBITED ACTS.

(a) [N GENERAL.--Subject to subsection (b), it is
unlawful for any person--

(1) to import into the United States any elephant
ivory from any country which--

(A) is not a member of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora;

(B) does not have a population of elephants
living in the wild; and

(C) is not a part of the African Continent.
(2) to import into the United States any elephant

ivory from Burundi.

(b) EXEMPTIONS OF SPORT TROPHIES.--This Act shall not
prohibit the importation into the United States of elephant
ivory from an elephant that was legally taken in a country
which has a population of elephants living in the wild.
SEC. 4. PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.

(a) CIVIL PENALTIES.--

 




FIELDSOSB

4

(1) IN GENERAL.--Any person who knowingly violates,

any provision of this Act may be assessed a civil penalty
by the Secretary of not more than $10,000 for each
violation. No penalty may be assessed under this
subsection unless such person is given notice and
opportunity for a hearing with respect to such violation.
Each violation shall be a separate offense. Any such
civil penalty may be remitted or mitigated by the
Secretary. Upon any failure to pay a penalty assessed
under this subsection, the Secretary may request the
Attorney General to institute a civil action in a
district court of the United States for any district in
which such person is found, resides, or transacts
business to collect the penalty and such court shall have
jurisdiction to hear and decide any such action. The
court shall hear such action on the record made before
the Secretary and shall sustain his action if it is
supported by substantial evidence on the record
considered as a whole.

(2) PROCEEDING.--Hearings held during proceedings for
the assessment of civil penalties authorized by paragraph
(1) of this subsection shall be conducted in accordance
with section 554 of title 5, United States Code. The
Secretary may issue subpoenas for the attendance and

testimony of witnesses and the production of relevant

 




FIELDSO68
5

papers, books, and documents, and administer oaths.
Witnesses summoned shall be paid the same fees and
mileage that are paid to witnesses in the courts of the
United States. In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a
subpoena served upon any person pursuant to this
paragraph, the district court of the United States for
any district in which such person is found or resides or
transacts business, upon application by the United States
and after notice to such person, shall have jurisdiction
to issue an order requiring such person to appear and
give testimony before the Secretary or to appear and
produce documents before the Secretary, or both, and any
failure to obey such order of the court may be punished

by such court as a contempt thereof.

(b) CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS.--Any person who knowingly

violates any provision of this Act shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than $5,000 and not more than $20,000, or
imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.

(c) DISTRICT COURT JURISDICTION.--The several district
courts of the United States, including the courts enumerated
in section 460 of title 28, United States Code, shall have
jurisdiction over any actions arising under this Act. For the
purpose of this Act, American Samoa shall be included within
the judicial district of the District Court of the United

States for the District of Hawaii.

 




FIELDSO68
6

(a) REWARDS AND CERTAIN INCIDENTAL EXPENSES.--The
Secretary or the Secretary of the Treasury shall pay, from
sums received as penalties, fines, or forfeitures of prOperty
for any violation of this Act or any regulation issued
hereunder a reward to any person who furnishes information
which leads to an arrest, a criminal conviction, civil
penalty assessment, or forfeiture of property for any
violation of this Act or any regulation issued hereunder. The
amount of the reward, if any, is to be designated by the
Secretary or the Secretary of the Treasury, as appropriate.
Any officer or employee of the United States or any State or
local government who furnishes information or renders service
in the performance of his official duties as ineligible for
payment under this subsection.

(e) ENFORCEMENT.--

(l) [N GENERAL.--This Act and any regulations or

permits issued pursuant thereto shall be enforced by the

Secretary, the Secretary of the Treasury, or the
Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is
operating, or all such Secretaries. Each such Secretary
may utilize by agreement, with or without reimbursement,
the personnel, services, and facilities of any other
Federal agency or any State agency for purposes of
enforcing this Act.

(2) PROCESS.--The judges of the district courts of

 




FIELDSOSB
7

the United States and the United States magistrates may,

within their respective jurisdictions, upon proper oath

or affirmation showing probable cause, issue such

warrants or other process as may be required for

enforcement of this Act and any regulation issued
thereunder.

(3) INSPECTIONS, ARRESTS, SEARCHES, AND
SEIZURES.--Any person authorized by the Secretary, the
Secretary of the Treasury, or the Secretary of the
Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, to
enforce this Act may detain for inspection and inspect
any package, crate, or other container, including its
contents, and all accompanying documents, upon
importation or exportation. Such person may make arrests
without a warrant for any violation of this Act if he has
reasonable grounds to believe that the person to be
arrested is committing the violation in his presence or
view, and may execute and serve any arrest warrant,
search warrant, or other warrant or civil or criminal
process issued by any officer or court of competent
jurisdiction for enforcement of this Act. Such person so
authorized may search and seize, with or without a
warrant, as authorized by law. Any item so seized shall
be held by any person authorized by the Secretary, the

Secretary of the Treasury, or the Secretary of the

 




' FIBLDSO68
8
Department in which the Coast Guard is operating pending
disposition of civil or criminal proceedings, or the
institution of an action in rem for forfeiture of such
item pursuant to paragraph (4) of this subsection; except
that the Secretary may, in lieu of holding such fish,

wildlife, property, or item, permit the owner or

consignee to post a bond or other surety satisfactory to

the Secretary, but upon forfeiture of any such property
to the United States, or the abandonment or waiver of any
claim to any such property, it shall be disposed of
(other than by sale to the general public) by the
Secretary in such a manner, consistent with the purposes
of this Act, as the Secretary shall by regulation
prescribe.

(4) FORFEITURE.--(A) All property imported contrary
to the provisions of this Act, any regulation made
pursuant thereto, or any permit or certificate issued
hereunder shall be subject to forfeiture to the United
States.

(B) All equipment, vessels, vehicles, aircraft, and
other means of transportation used to aid the taking,
possessing, selling, purchasing, offering for sale or
purchase, transporting, delivering, receiving, carrying,
shipping, exporting, or importing of any item in

violation of this Act or of any regulation made pursuant

 




' FIELDSOEB
9
thereto, shall be subject to forfeiture to the United
States upon conviction of a criminal violation pursuant
to section ll(b)(l) of this Act.

(5) APPLICATION OF OTHER LAWS.--All provisions of law
relating to the seizure, forfeiture, and condemnation of
a vessel for violation of the customs laws, the
disposition of such vessel or the proceeds from the sale
thereof, and the remission or mitigation of such
forfeiture, shall apply to the seizures and forfeitures
incurred, or alleged to have been incurred, under the
provisions of this Act, insofar as such provisions of law
are applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act; except that all powers, rights, and duties
conferred or imposed by the customs laws upon any officer
or employee of the Treasury Department shall, for the
purposes of this Act, be exercised or performed by the
Secretary or by such persons as he may designate.

(6) INJUNCTIONS.--The Attorney General of the United
States may seek to enjoin any person who is alleged to be
in violation of any provision of this Act or regulation

issued under authority thereof.

(f) REGULATIONS.--The Secretary, the Secretary of the

Treasury, and the Secretary of the Department in which the
Coast Guard is operating, are authorized to promulgate such

regulations as may be appropriate to enforce this Act, and

 




FIELDSOGB
10

charge reasonable fees for expenses to the Government
connected with permits or certificates authorized by this Act
including processing applications and reasonable inspections,
and with the transfer, board, handling, or storage of fish or
wildlife or plants and evidentiary items seized and forfeited
under this Act. All such fees collected pursuant to this
subsection shall be deposited in the Treasury to the credit
of the appropriation which is current and chargeable for the
cost of furnishing the services. Appropriated funds may be
expended pending reimbursement from parties in interest.
SEC. 5. ADMINISTRATION.

Except as otherwise provided in subsections (e) and (f)
of section 6, the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation
with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of the
department in which the Coast Guard is operating, shall
administer this Act.

SEC. 6. COORDINATION WITH OTHER LAWS.

Nothing in this Act shall be construed as superseding or

limiting in any manner the functions and responsibilities of
the Secretary under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) or of the Secretary of the Treasury
under the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1202 et seq.).
SEC. 7. PREEMPTION.

Any State law or regulation which applies with respect to

the importation of raw or worked ivory or interstate or

 




‘FIELDSO68
ll
foreign commerce involving such ivory is void to the extent
that it may effectively--
(1) permit what is prohibited by this Act or by any
regulation issued under this Act, or
(2) prohibit what is authorized by this Act or by any
regulation issued under this Act.
.SEC. 8. DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this Act--
(1) ELEPHANT.--The term “elephant" means any animal

of the species Loxodonta africana.

(2) SECRETARY.--The term “Secretary" means the

Secretary of the Interior.

(3) STATE.—-The term “State" means any State of the
United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the
United States.

(4) UNITED STATES.--The term “United States”, when

used in a geographical context, includes all States.

 

 




IICHNIRENF<§ISILJCHN

I730 PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE, N.W.

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20006-4793

(202) 783-0800

RAY S. BOLZE June 2 l , 1988 CABLE: HOWREYLAW WSH
(202)383-6948 TELEX: 753472

Mrs. Christine Stevens
President

Animal Welfare Institute
1686 - 34th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dr. Susan S. Lieberman

Associate Director

Wildlife and Environment

The Humane Society of the United States
2100 L Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20037

Dear Christine and Sue:

Enclosed is a draft letter which can serve as a
framework for a piece of joint correspondence from both of you to
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for inspection of animal
holding facilities. Since you are more familiar with CITES than
either Margaret or myself, I am sure there will need to be some
changes in the recommended language. Indeed, you may even be
able to "beef it up."

As we discussed with Sue this morning, not only do your
two organizations have qualified personnel who could serve as
"technical observers," but we might also be able to call on
Dr. Bruning to assist in this endeavor.

After you have had a chance to work on this draft,
please let Margaret or me have your thoughts. It probably should
be finalized on the official stationery of one of your two
organizations.

If we can obtain enforcement information under the
"resurrected regulations" from either this mechanism or the FOIA
requests which Sue has with the Agriculture Department on
quarantine statistics, we then would have a basis (assuming a
lack of enforcement) to revisit with Judge Pratt.

Cordially,

cc: Dr. John W. Grandy
Mr. Craig Van Note

 




Mr. Clark R. Bavin, Chief
Division of Law Enforcement
U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Post Office Box 28006
Washington, D.C. 20038-8006
Dear Mr. Bavin:
During the Sixth Meeting of the Conference of the
Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora ("CITES"), the Parties adopted
[Draft] Resolution 6.22, which was prepared by the CITES
Technical Committee in an effort to improve the condition
in which wildlife are transported (copy attached). This
resolution recommends, in part:
e) that Parties [to CITES] ensure that airline
terminal holding facilities and cargo sheds are open
at all times for inspection of shipments by enforce-

ment personnel and/or qualified technical observers;

and that any documented information be made available

to the appropriate authorities and airlines concerned;

and
f) that Parties be encouraged to gather
information on mortality relating to transport and
underlying causes of such mortality.
Pursuant to paragraphs e) and f) of Draft Resolution
6.22, the undersigned hereby request your assistance in
scheduling mutually agreeable dates for qualified technical

observers to inspect shipments of wildlife coming into the

 




United States at the ports of New York, Miami and Los Angeles
to enable them to observe the conditions under which wildlife
are being transported and to gather data on mortality and the
causes thereof. The qualified observers will include:

[Names and qualifications to be

supplied by AWI and HSUS.]
In addition, depending on the dates the inspections are

scheduled to occur, we may designate additional qualified

observers. We will be happy to supply your office with their

names and qualifications in advance of the inspection dates.

We are writing to you because we believe your office
is in charge of matters such as this. If this is the case, we
would appreciate hearing from you soon so that we may begin
scheduling the visits to the holding facilities. If, however,
another office at Interior handles the matters covered by our
request, please let us know so that we may direct our request
to the appropriate persons.

Thank you in advance for your assistance. We look

forward to working with you on this matter.

Sincerely,

 




RECWLW “.3- 2 0 3:233.“

CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES
OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA '

 

Sixth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties

 

Ottawa (Canada), 12 to 24 July 1987

DRAFT RESOLUTION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES*

Shipment of Live Animals

 

NOTING that Resolution Conf. 5.18 directed the Technical Committee to prepare
recommendations for the sixth meeting of the Conference of the Parties on any
further measures which may be required to improve the conditions in which live;
specimens are transported; ‘

CONSIDERING that the regulations of the International Air Transport
Association (IATA Live Animals Regulations) benefit from wide recognition;

THE CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES TO THE CONVENTION

RECOMMENDS

a) that applicants for export permits or re-export certificates be notified
that, as a condition of issue, they are required to prepare and ship live
specimens in acccordance with IATA Live Animals Regulations or the CITES
Guidelines on Transport of Live Specimens;

that to assist enforcement officers, CITES export permits or re-export
certificates be accompanied by a crating, health and welfare checklist
(see attached model) to be signed immediately prior to shipment by a
person designated by a CITES Management Authority;

that on arrival at the destined port of entry, the reporting system
recommended in Resolution Conf. 4.21 (International Reporting System for
Specimens Stressed during Transport) be used;

that where Parties to the Convention have designated ports of exit and
entry, the provision of animal holding facilities be made available;

that Parties ensure that airline terminal animal holding facilities and
cargo sheds are open at all times for inspection of shipments by
enforcement personnel and/or qualified technical observers; and that any
documented information be made available to the appropriate authorities
and airlines concerned;

 

This document has been approved by Committee II. /}\9§P

 




CONEEEITION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE L.” iii-LaziczaED SPECIES ‘ EXPORT 0R RE-
PREPARATION or safe-152:: 524-; $.st W
To be attached to all CITES live soc:i:;:e permits accompanying Ngii
shipments. Return completed original; to Management Authority VALIE UKIILZ
o: expo:ting/re-exporting;country at gccress below.
SECTION A: For completion by a person SECTION B: For completion by a person
designated by Management Authority to designated by Hanagement Authority to
inspect shipments being cleared for inspect shipments being cleared for
EXPORT $80?! 1) DHPORT (NOTE 2)
PLEASE TICK: PLEASE TICK: Please give details of 1NO'
YES: NO: YES: NO: answers; attach added
explanations as necessary

 

 

Are all CITES documents
required for eXport trans-
shipment & import complete?

 

Is the shipment accompanied
by a veterinary certificate?

 

Are the numbers and scien-
tific names of the specimens
correctly stated in the ace“
ompanying CITES documents?

 

Can specimens be counted
and identified without
breaking open crates?

 

Does design and construction
of crates comply with IATA
Live Animals Regulations?
(NOTE 3). In particular,
is/are crate(s):

 

of adequated size
(not crowded)

 

adequately ventilated?

 

provided with externally
refillable water, food
and cleaning facilities.

 

undamaged?

 

Are all the specimens
alive?

 

Are the specimens
apparently free from

injury and disease?
Signature73tamp of §T§nature7§tamp of’

designated person, designated person,
Port of [11‘0sz Port of DIPOIT:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date and time: Date and time:

 

NOTE I: Shipment having ‘NO' ticks should not be cleared for export and the
shipper informed immediately.

NOTE 2: "here answers in Sec. 3 contradict those of Sec. A, designated persons
should inform their Management Authority. and the Management Authority of

the exporting country by returning this completed original to:

 

Designated persons need familiarity
with IATA Live Animals Regulations.

 

 




._ or
1; 515‘223 2620.
totals revised

(1 soybean produc-
ll slightly from the
ccording to the 1999
conducted by the
f, in production was
{.44 billion bushels,
-. 1 from the 1998 crop
j .
sq; cent from the Nov.
.1 39 st year’s corn pro-
01 , ver, ranks as the
on record behind

1' ”. 1992 respectively.

, f 133.8 bushels per

'19 .6 bushels from

roduction last year
trend. Production
bushels, down 4
98 and 1 percent
’5 forecast. It was
production total on
rage yield per acre
‘- t 36.5 bushels, 2.4
998’s output.
iles strong
grew 2 to 3 percent
'ording to Dairy
:Inc. The growth
gte relatively high
km milk and retail
1 much of the year
d milk production
pnds.
' ral reasons for the

' processors nthat “

i 1 Milk?” advertis-
Q; ched 1n the fall of
11, teen and adult
inued growth in
.. ped by the largest
7 romotion program
£rowing scientific
if milk’s role in a

I said that U.S.
f reases to key mar-
1 mg world econom-

')

" elped spur 1999’s

0% ~Yv r. -n. .. .‘.
' . "Qﬁ'ﬂ‘ﬁ— ‘3)”:ng 3" ‘ -

urch immeiate ‘y fo owing the
funh'al “mice
has-’lﬁe

Mrs.

 

... W .
frie s and family.

A pbﬁ'ﬂﬂémggﬂiem 1 Sliiéh‘111rszmt include one daughter,

1 Burlington; one

 

1916,:
Chad:
Newm
Jessup
1934,
front
1934.
theiri
1942-
VVinﬁt--_

(USPS 144- -340)

Web Site:
www.mpnews.net
E-mail: pubémpnewsnet

/1\'
Jog

00

_-.- .... Mem'énlr'paym 2111'u

 

C914 1‘. ‘I’Ieasant News

Mt. Pleasant, lowa 52641
Tel.: (319) 385 3131

POSTMASTER: Send address chan 9

st th
MT. PLEASANT NEWS PO. Box 240. at. o e
Pleasant Iowa 52641 0240.
Published at 215 W. Monroe Mt. Pieasan

1, la

52641 -2110 by Mt. Pleasant News afternoons
Monday through Friday (except New Year’ s new

,aight of Sultan,
rother, Charles
.lem; one sister,
of Phoenix, Ariz.;
/, Margaret Haight
grandchildren; ﬁve
.ren; two step-great-
several nieces and
was preceded in
1rents; her husband;
and one brother, Donald Newman.

 

Democrats blamed for
killing the dove bill

This morning, key Democratic
State Representatives pulled their
support from legislation which
would have permitted mourning
dove hunting in Iowa, effectively
killing the bill for the remainder of
the session.

Their reversal stunned members
of the Iowa Committee for WLFA,

of this morning, according to House
leadership and bill proponents, 48
yes votes were accounted for. The
three ﬂip-ﬂops were the difference.
"It is important to recognize the
House Democrats who supported the
sportsmen and stood up'to their lead-
ership," explained Tebbs. "Along
with a large majority of Republicans,
we owe them our thanks. This should
not have been a partisan issue. We

:1" 15‘1"???jreceived support from both parties
,._,_‘ ‘ when the bill passed the Senate; it

charge against the 1311151111 managed
to make it a party issue. ‘ ~ --
"It' 3 sad to see people sacrifice
their integrity for partisan reasons,"
said Steve Skold, a committee mem-
ber from Des Moines. "It is impor-
tant that IoWa's sportsmen‘and

‘sportsw‘o‘men know Who’31ood yiﬂth

them, who 'opposed them, 'an'a‘moét
”important, who deceived them. We
will be back."

‘ More than 300 hunters rallied at
the Statehouse on Wednesday in sup-
port of Senate File 37.- : 1, 1 1

"It was clear when we left that we
had 51 votes," said Rick Tebbs, a
committee member from Fort
Madison.

It was at this point that the
Democrats pulled their Support. As

was not a-partisan issue there.”
‘Tebbs added that
Democratic leadership made a con—
scious decision to kill this bill. He
said that the Iowa Committee for
WLFA will redouble its efforts to let

‘ 5‘1}: ’5 act.“ ,4. -A¥W~
30'5- 2643“Beaver * w...

Avenue, Des Moines, IA 50310
Phone (319) 372-9525

Henry. county Health Center
Monday, J anhary 24: '
, Dismissals: Mary, McNeely of

Mt Pleasant; Debra .Staggerhof Mt.

Pleasant; Ada Kindig of Mt.
Pleasant; Lyn Hesford of Mt.
Pleasant; Diane Steffensmeier and
baby boy. of Salem, Kari

5? ”Winter and baby girL Q New

[amen

 

House +

vv ---- ‘-

A memorial has beet
for the Mt. Union Unit
Church.

Mrs. Geary was b«
1907, in Winfield, [ht
Irvin and Ida Adams
married Ralph Geary
1932. She grew up in
lived in Mt. Union for
She was a postal cler}
Union Post Ofﬁce and

Bonnie ‘Car

The memorial servic
Friday, Jan. 29, has bee

PI‘ Instii

Seven staff members
Interest Institute at Iovx
College recently attend
Policy Public Netw01
Regional Meeting in Or

The Public Policy N<
alliance of free—market
in 37 of the 50 state
members participated it
which focused on: educ
rights, transportation 2
taxation.

Public Interest Institu
Dr. Ron Racheter said
able to make personal c
people that we curre

Planning ar

The 1511 Picasant P1a1
session? owuesilayﬂ
1ncl%de rev1ew’re'ques

review application for a

district to a subUrban re:
of Briarwood Lane.

NL‘ Municipt

- New London Munici]
Friday, Jan. 28 at 3 pm.
to meet with Louie-Ervi
study and. to review the 1

MP 'citycot

The _Mt. Pleasant C

u-1 :atimtvm “W“

 




 

 

first for a veteran hunter}
down some doves

booting

eith Kirkpatrick, the

longtime host of Sportsman’s

Notebook on WHO radio, is
a veteran duck and deer hunter.

But his introduction to dove
hunting last week in north central
Missouri had both unexpected and
expected elements that dove
hunters might encounter.

Two unexpected factors were the
95-degree heat and killer sun.
Another was that the majority of
dove movement was in the late
afternoon instead of early morning.

Still, we took our limits on the
ﬁrst day— as expected— and all
eight hunters in our party used a lot
‘ of ammunition.

“I really don’ t know what to
expect or exactly how to hunt these
birds, So I think i'll just hang ciose
to you or Lyle,” Kirkpatrick said as
he, I and Lyle Goodrich of Indianola
entered a ﬁeld just before ﬁrst light.
“Once you get the hang of it, I think
I’ll be alright

“I ﬁgure that since we talked a lot '

about dove hunting on my radio talk
show that I better ﬁnd out what this
is all about ﬁrst hand.”

Kirkpatrick, 74, of Des Moines, is
a familiar voice on the radio on
Sunday momings Doyle Adams,
also of Indianola, joined us' at the
site while four other hunters in our
party were testing another ﬁeld
about 30 or 40 miles away. Both
ﬁelds were found to hold doves
during three hard, long days of
scouting just before the season
opened Sept. 1.

Kirkpatrick had the right idea
about hunting near, someone else.
It’s almost always a good idea to
hunt doves in close proximity to
another hunter. In doing so, they

can alert each other to incoming or
passing birds.

We were in a small ﬁeld of cut but
unharvested wheat, with a pond and
timber on one side and weeds on
the other. Kirkpatrick located
himself on a timber point facing the
pond while Goodrich was on
another point about 60 yards away.
Adams was across the pond in the
weeds and I located myself on a
point of the timber that extended
out into the ﬁeld.

It was a good half-hour after
sunrise when Goodrich yelled at
Kirkpatrick just before I heard our
tall lanky friend shoot I heard
another shot‘from Goodrich’s area
and a few from across the pond
before I shot To say the action was
slow would be an understatement.

“I got the ﬁrst two that ﬂew over
but missed a couple of others that I
either didn’t see in time or just plain
missed,” Kirkpatrick said.

Goodrich was happy that
Kirkpatrick bagged a couple but

, was disappointed with the lack of

doves in the area. The four of us had
bagged just a few doves before
giving up on this site about 10 am.

“Let’s see if we can’t ﬁnd the
other four hunters in our party and
see if they had any better luck,”
Goodrich said. ‘.‘We may end up
with all eight of us hunting that
other ﬁeld this afternoon. It’s a big,
SOC-acre ﬁeld of cut but '
unharvested wheat with knee-high
weeds so it can easily hold eight
hunters.”

The best time of the day to hunt
doves is when they’re using a ﬁeld '
for feeding from about daylight to
10 am. and again from about 4 pm.

until about sunset.

The other hunters had done just a
little better with only one ﬁlling his
limit. They, too, were disappointed
by the lack of doves.

At 4 pm. four of us were
positioned on one side of this big
ﬁeld while four were lined on the
other side and next to timber. The ,
hunter who had his limit, Bud Allen,
of Winterset, was helping Goodrich
Kirkpatrick and myself spot -
incoming doves In Missouri, each
hunter must shoot his own birds
and quit after reaching the "
individual limit. The daily bag limit
in Missouri is 15 per hunter. I

It was bedlam as doves swooped
in for their afternoon feeding spree
Shots and yells alerting others of
incoming birds could be heard frofr
one end of the ﬁeld to the other.
The hot weather pushed us all to ' "
call it quits, however, after only two
hours. We were just a few doves '
short of our limits and no lost birds
thanks to the good work of six
hunting dogs.

. “I didn’t know that this social
hour and dinner of barbecued
doves, potatoes, salad and liquid
refreslunents at the campground if .
was such a big part of thehunt, but"

- I do now,” Kirkpatrick said as he ate

a dove that evening. “Now I can
attest to the fact that dove hunting
is certainly a challenge and
extremely exciting.” ‘ '

Kirkpatrick did have a ﬁrst— a .
ﬁrst for all of us— when he got two
doves with one shot. Ah, the luck of
a ﬁrst-timer.

Iowa does not have a '
d0ve—hunting season Missouri 18 -
one of 38 states that does allow

' dove hunting.

TOM KOLLINGS/‘l‘nr. Raolsrrt

Lyle Goodrich checks a dove handed him by his hunting dog, Buck, as Keith Kirkpatrick looks on

 




