 

 

Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve

RE you going away on a summer vacation, or to change your
place of residence? Please do'not leave your cat behind you.
If you think she can take care of herself you are quite mis-

taken, for the cat is a domestic animal and needs to be cared for.

It is true a cat clings very strongly to life, and can live for a long
time in a most wretched and starving condition, but this makes it the
more important that she should not be left to suffer a slow and miser-
able death.

She cannot possibly make herself comfortable, and in her attempt
to ﬁnd food and shelter she will be a source of great trouble, and often
of absolute pain to the occupants of the nearest houses.

Do not leave a creature to starve in the streets or your back yard,
whether the animal is your own or some stray, homeless cat. If you
cannot provide it with a home, notify the Animal Rescue League or the
Humane Society of your city to send their agent, who will mercifully
destroy the animal, or ﬁnd it a home. Directions are given in foot-
note for those persons who live at a distance from any Humane
Society.

There is a law against cruelty in every form, which includes cruelly
abandoning animals.

Shelters for lost and homeless animals should be considered just
as important and just as necessary as police stations are. When these
are established a very large number of homeless and diseased cats and

 

  




 

kittens will be carried to them by people who will not put them to
death themselves.

DO NOT KEEP ALL THE KITTENS

Do not keep all the kittens. They grow up wild, catch birds and
chickens, and annoy the neighbors.

Save one male kitten for the mother cat. To take all from her at
once is a cruel thing, and she is liable to have milk-fever and be seri-
ously injured by it. It is better to remove only one or two kittens
at a time, thus leaving the others to gradually diminish the milk sup-
ply of the mother.

Young kittens are sometimes difﬁcult to kill with chloroform.
The proper way is to drown them before their eyes are open and within
a few days after they are born. Take a bucket rather more than half
full of lukewarm water; put in the kitten, and then put another bucket
of water as far as it will go into the ﬁrst. Do not drown them in
the presence of the mother, and be sure to leave her one alive.

Do not let this be done by children.

CATS SHOULD BE KEPT IN THE HOUSE AT NIGHT

They not only need the shelter, but they should not be allowed
to annoy the neighbors. A

In the country, at the time when birds are rearing their young,
it is especially important to keep cats in at night, as it is especially in
the early morning hours that the birds are caught by them. Some
watchfulness is needed in the day, also, at this time, if we care to pre-
serve the lives of our useful friends, the birds.

THE CARE OF CATS

Feed your cat regularly.

It is better to keep one or two cats and take good care of them
than to keep more that are hungry and wild.

A well fed cat is strong and will catch more mice and rats than a
thin, weak cat.

Cats, like people, need a mixed diet, not only a little meat every
day, but some kind of vegetable. Cats can eat potato, asparagus,
cabbage, corn and beans, etc. They like Johnnycakes, corn bread, etc.

A dish of water should always be kept where they can get it. Cats
often are allowed to suffer with thirst. They need fresh water as
well as milk, just as we do. Milk cannot take the place of water. With
their milk, rice or oatmeal can be mixed; sometimes macaroni and
rice can be given.

Liver is not a good diet for regular use and should only be given
about once a week and should be boiled. It is important that raw
meat and ﬁsh given to cats should be perfectly fresh, and care should
be taken to remove the bones from the ﬁsh. Cats are sometimes seri-
ously hurt by swallowing ﬁsh bones.

The dishes from which a cat is fed should be kept perfectly clean.
Whenever possible a cat should have access to grass, as sickness is
often prevented if she can have it in time. Grass and catnip can be
grown in boxes or pots in winter. In case of ﬂeas, it is recommended
to sprinkle the cat’s basket or box with ﬂowers of sulphur.

The best way to rid a cat of ﬂeas is to use carefully a ﬁne tooth

r‘ 3.35: 35;?”

 




comb. Have a dish of warm, soapy water ready in which to kill the
ﬂeas quickly.

Cats enjoy being brushed often, especially on the head between
the ears. This should be done carefully, always brushing the fur the
right way.

HOW TO HANDLE A CAT

In handling the cat be sure to do it in the way she likes. Never
stroke her fur the wrong way. In lifting her from the ground do not
lift a cat by the upper part of her body, leaving her hind legs hanging
uncomfortably. If this is done with some cats there is danger of rup-
ture. Lift her gently by placing one hand under the fore legs and at
the same time lift her hind legs with the other hand. In this way the
whole body will be supported at once and she can be carried very com—
fortably. Do not take her up by the nape of the neck. A grown cat
is too heavy to lift in that way.

A cat’s whiskers are so very sensitive that even if they are slightly
touched, it will often cause suffering, and if they are pulled it causes
great pain.

ABOUT TIN CANS

Do not throw out empty cans that have had any kind of food in
them without beating them ﬂat. Cats and dogs have got their heads
caught in empty cans when seeking food and been cruelly injured, or
have died before they were released.

CATS ARE AF F ECTIONATE

Many men and women who have kept cats and
studied them have written true accounts which
show that cats are very intelligent, sensitive, af-
fectionate animals. Dr. W. Gordon Stables, in
his book about cats, gives many instances which
show that cats are, as a rule, more attached to
their owners than to their homes. Instances have
been known where cats pined away and almost
died when a master or mistress they loved went away for a long absence,
and quickly recovered when their owners returned. He also speaks
of the love cats have for their offspring and says, “Cats will go through
ﬁre and water to save the lives of their kittens.”

  

DO NOT PUT A RIBBON OR COLLAR ON YOUR CAT

It is cruel as well as dangerous to put a collar or ribbon on a cat.
Cats with collars have been known to be strangled by being caught
on fences, etc, and also have been badly hurt by getting their paws
caught in the collar in an endeavor to get it off.

In some states there has been some agitation in regard to licens-
ing cats. Humane persons are agreed that it is a very impractical
measure and one which would do a great deal more harm than good.
Many persons would resent the taX and refuse to acknowledge the
ownership of cats, thus the number of homeless cats would increase
and much cruelty would be involved in the attempt to catch and kill
them. Because dogs are licensed is not a good reason why cats should

 




  

 

 

  

be also, as these two animals differ very much in their characteristics
and habits. While dogs can wear collars without much trouble or
discomfort, the cat, if obliged to wear one, would be in constant danger
when climbing trees, fences, etc., also if the collar were lost temporarily
the cat would be likely to be picked up and killed as is done with dogs
who are found without collars. -

Greatly exaggerated statements have been made in regard to birds
destroyed by cats. Five million licensed hunters in the United States,
millions of boys with air guns and the wholesale slaughter of migrating
birds in the South would account for the destruction of many birds.

Cats are indispensable and if their number were largely reduced
there would be such a plague of rats and mice as to do serious damage.
The best way to lessen the number of homeless cats is by education of
the people to keep only as many cats as can be properly cared for.

PROVIDENCE ANIMAL RESCUE LEAGUE,
145 Richmond Street, Providence, R. I. ' Telephone Union 1691.

  
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  

The League requests that persons leaving town for the summer will humanely
provide for their dogs and cats. Small animals that they are unable to take with them,
instead of being left to starve, may be sent to the League’s Shelter, where homes will be
found for desirable healthy male animals when possible. Other diseased or unwanted
animals may be disposed of in the electric cages provided for this purpose, by the Vet—
erinary Surgeon in charge. A small sum will be charged the owners of pets for collection
and disposal. Any one seeing sick, stray or neglected small animals in the street should
notify the League at once. It is earnestly requested that whenever it is possible animals
shall be taken to the Shelter on Richmond Street. When this cannot be done an agent
will be sent from the League. But when animals are sent for or disposed of, the League
is obliged to charge a small sum for doing so, as it is a new society, and these charges
form a necessary part of its support. When ﬁnders of stray or unwanted animals are
unable to pay, animals will be sent for and disposed of free of charge.*

    
  
  
  
  
  
   
  

 
 

DIRECTIONS FOR CHLOROFORMING CATS

If there is no shelter or society for the humane disposal of dogs and cats within
your reach, you can put your cat mercifully to death yourself with chloroform, which
is much kinder than to leave her to suffer.

Directions. Put an old piece of carpet or some newspapers on the ﬂoor. Place
on that a dish of milk or meat. When the cat is at the dish, place over her a tub or
ﬁrkin or some other vessel as near the size of the cat as possible without the cat being
crowded. Put under the tub immediately a saturated sponge or piece of old cloth,
using from two to three ounces of chloroform. It is better to place the cloth or sponge
as near the nose of the cat as possible. Be careful not to pour the chloroform directly
on the cat as it would burn. There must be a heavy weight on top of the box or tub,
otherwise the cat will get out. A box or a tub with a cover can be used and the cat
placed in it if this is easier, but in this case it is better to have a little air introduced.
When the vessel is airtight the animal does not die as easily, as suffocation is apt to be
the result. The cat should remain in or under the tub or box an hour or more. If
she must be taken out in less time she should be put in a pail of water about ﬁfteen
minutes. Every precaution should be taken to be sure that the cat will not come to
life. It is better when possible to have the receptacle in which a cat is to be chloro—
formed ﬁlled with the fumes of chloroform before the cat is placed in it as then uncons-
ciousness ensues more quickly.

 

*In Boston, notify the Animal Rescue League, 51 Carver Street, Boston, Mass.
Telephone, Beach 244.

In Fall River, Mass, notify the Animal Rescue League, 452 Durfee Street.
Telephone, 2987. .

 

This leaﬂet can be obtained by addressing the R. I. Humane Education Society,
17 Exchange Street, Providence, R. 1. Price 40 cents per hundred, postpaid.

     




