THE ll

ANIMAL DEFENCE AND

ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY
1 9 2 5

FOUNDED IN 1906.

 

 

3 -’*:r:;;—/‘_":’ .
IN‘DEFENGE‘ OF' 27%
" OUR-DUMB FRIENDS AGAINST ‘
THE'HORRRS’OF'VIVIIS‘ECTJO? “

g 3/ 7 1"\
’ ,x . -: , . ‘ (ii .-—
, ‘_ _ /: Iggﬁilmw‘ WW ﬁd“,
, ', ‘ ‘ 4f" :1 . 312E! ‘ é\
. A . iffy/1"" I '1‘ I I. f 3

’-
.——.
“—v

~
‘
C

v" ’
‘

.
‘Tno'
4..
o .
.“f‘u
., ,, _
.' ~.v
. ‘ 3
‘1 JG
‘5‘“
‘7'“, ‘

A
i-

I!"

i

..
,
:5
a-I
f,

._‘

.2;
:0
ﬂ

‘q
,t

”2;?“
In“

. n. .
\v
.\ n, . $2.3“ 1“
- ‘ i; \‘v
- l‘ -._‘ . ‘ ~.
I\ ..
" ‘1
.x ,7 3:.
~ \ ,-
.J) A

J'
a
\\

\

CUPYRIUHT

Design“ and presentel to tie 59.15!) by H'ulxr Cameo

35, OLD BOND STREET.

LONDON, W.l

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

9

 

 

   




 

 

 

 

The Animal Defence and

Anti-Vivisection Society
LONDON: 35, OLD BOND STREET, W.l

 

 

BANKERS :
The Midland Bank, Ltd., 36, Old Bond Street, London, W.l.-

SOLICITORS :
Messrs. Lattey & Hart, 138, Leadenhall Street, London, E.C..

 

 

Telephone-Regent 845.

OBJECTS :

Abolition of Vivisection and a. Consistent
Opposition to all forms of Cruelty to Animals

“No civilisation is complete which does
not include the dumb and defenceless of
God’s creatures within the sphere of

a, :9
charity and mercy.
Queen Victoria.

9%

   

3.: up .9, W:
3, .. . g; "3»;
“ _"~' ~ i}; if ;
. u ;, ‘ ‘Ei 1, ‘
. .
‘ l" .1.-
) ' ‘ j -

1923 and 1924

  
      
 
      
 
   
  
     
  
    




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

The Animal Defence and
Anti-Viviseetion Society.

 

President.
THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON AND BRANDON.

Vice-Presidents.

The Marquis of Douglas
and Clydesdale.
The Earl of Buchan.
The Lord Ernest Hamilton. Madame Sarah Grand.
The Countess of Aylesford. Mabel Collins (Mrs. Cook).
The Countess of Plymouth. J Mrs. Grove-Grady.
l

Algernon Blackwood, Esq.
R. B. Cunninghame Graham,

T

111qu

r .7_.__.—___

Muriel Countess de la \Varr. _ Mrs. V‘Vaddingham.
The Viscount Molesworth. Sir James O’Grady.

The Lord Leigh. Atheistan Rendall, Esq.
Mrs. Miller. R. Richardson, Esq, Ml’.
Miss Abadam. i J. Sexton, Esq, M.P.

H. Baillie-V\«'eaver, Esq. } The Rt. Hon.

Mrs. Baillie-VVeaver. ‘ Philip Snowden, MP.

Docteur H. Boucher. i B. C. Spoor, Esq., M.P.
Mrs. Clinton Pinckney Farrell. l Col. J. C. \Vedgwood, M.P.

Executive Council.

 

Mrs. Bailey—\Vorthington. The Duchess of Hamilton.
Lady Blomﬁeld. Miss Constance Lardelli.
Mrs. Congreve Miss Lind—af-Hageby.

Miss Delius. Miss Nora Logan.

Mrs. Despard. Mrs. C. B. Lutyens.

Mrs. Platon Drakoules. The Duchess of Manchester.
Miss Faulkner. M rs. Miller.

The Hon. Mrs. Forbes. _‘ Howard \Villiams, Esq., M.A.

Hon. Director: Ni‘liss LIND-AF-HAGEBY.
Hon. Treasurer: Miss B. C. DELIUS.
Chairman of Executive Council: Mrs. MILLER.
Secretary and Editor of Publications: Miss L. K. SCHARTAU.
Hon. Assistant Secretary: Miss NORA LOGAN.

Slaughter Reform Department.

Lecturer: Miss CONSTANCE WARNER.
Humane Slaughter Adviser: Mr. JOHN DODDS,
Late Superintendent of Carlisle Public Slaughterhouses.

’3
O

 




 

Honorary Members.

The Rev. Dr. \V. F. Cobb.

Mrs. Despard.

Mrs. L. Eggleton.

Madam Sarah Grand.

The Baroness de Smeth d’Alphen,

Lausanne.

Docteur Henry Boucher, Paris.
Mrs. Clinton Pinckney Farrell,

New York.

Docteur Foveau de Courmelles,

Paris.

R. B. Cunninghame Graham, Esq.
Madame van Hoorde, Brussels.
Fru Geirsvold, Bergen.

Monsieur Ernest Judet, Paris.
Docteur Laurent, Paris.

Dr. Elmer Lee, New York.
Docteur Maréchal, Paris.

Fru Malvina Mehrn, Copenhagen.
Herr Hugo Nolthenius, Utrecht.

F. S. Arnold, Esq., M.D., M.R.C.S.

Robert Bell, Esq., M.D.

Alex. Bowie, Esq., M.D., M.B.
G. H. Burford, Esq., M.B., C.M.
W. J. Cameron, Esq., M.B.

.F. M. Cann, Esq., M.R.C.S.

E. L. Compston, Esq., M.B., Ch.B.

David Fennell, Esq., M.D. [C.B.

Geo. S. P. Ferdinands, Esq., M.D.,
Froken Rosa Fitinghcff,

Stockholm.

Vincent Green, Esq., M.D.

T. R. Henderson, Esq., M.A., M.B.

J. Stenson Hooker, Esq., M.D.
Miss Arabella Kenealy, L.R.C.P.
John Edw. KenyOn, Esq.,

L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S.
H. V. Knaggs, Esq.,

L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S.

Jerome K. Jerome, Esq.
Monsieur Solange Pellat. Paris.
Professor Quidde, Miinchen.
Frau Quidde, Munchen.

Fru Hilde Richardt, Oslo.
Docteur Riviere, Paris.
Revisor A. Roswall, Stockholm.
Docteur Jules Ruhl, Brussels.
Madame de Silva, l’aris.

Docteur Sanchez de Silvera.

Nantes.

Generaldirektbr Christian L.

Tenow, Stockholm.

Fru Elna Tenow, Stockholm.

Fru Constance Ullner,

Helsingfors.

Monsieur Roger des Varennes,

Paris.

Mrs. \Vhitney, New York.
D. MacNish, Esq.,

M.A., M.D., C.M.

J. Cavendish Molson, Esq.,

M.D., L.R.C.P.

Robert Perks, Esq., M.D.,

F.R.C.S.

G. H. Pinder, Esq., M.R.C.S.
O. R. Prankerd, Esq.,

M.D., M.B., C.M.

“7m. Cash Reed, Esq., M.D.
John Reid, Esq., M.D.. C.M.

David Ridpath, Esq., M.D., C.M.

Harry ioberts, Esq., L.S.A.
C. Stirling Saunder, Esq.,

L.R.C.P.

Thomas Simpson. Esq.,
M.D., M.R.C.S.

Claude A. P. Truman, Esq.,

L.R.C.S..

D. D’Auvergne Wright, Esq.,
F.R.C.S..

 

 

 

4__

‘3‘

 




 

 

 

 

Life Members.

William Aird, Esq.

Miss Anderson.

Miss Andrews.

Mrs. Angas.

Miss A. Aris.

George Arliss, Esq.
Mrs. Arliss.

Miss S. Ashmore.

Mrs. Austin.

The Countess of Aylesford.
Sir A.- Bailey.

H. Baillie-Weaver, Esq.
Mrs. Baillie-VVeaver.
Mrs. Bailey—VVorthington.
Dr. George Baudry.

F. Fleming Baxter, Esq.
Mrs. Fleming Baxter.
Miss Beeching.

Edwin M. Beedell. Esq.
R. K. Bevington, Esq.
M. Y. Bennett, Esq.
Miss Louisa Bigg.

R. H. S. Biscoe, Esq.
Mrs. M. E. Blamires.
R. T. Bowden, Esq.
Miss Dorothy Bracewell.
Miss B. F. L. Brettingham.
Miss Esther Bright.
Mrs. D. Brink.

Miss M. A. Brooke.

E. \V. Brooks, Esq.
The Earl of Buchan.
Miss Hansen Caine.
Miss Callaghan.

Miss Carleton.

C. B. Carryer, Esq.
Miss Cheetham.

Miss G. E. Cliff.

Mrs. Stracey Clitherovv.

L. A. Compton—Rickett, Esq.

Mrs. Congreve.

Miss Nora Cooke.

F. U. Corbett, Esq.

Lady Clifford Cory.

The Viscountess Cowdray.

The Hon. Pauline Cranstoun.

Miss Crosﬁeld.
Victoria Cross.

Miss Ogleby Davies.
Mrs. Horace Delasalle.

 

 

U1

Miss B. C. Delius.
Miss Dodge.
Miss Donkin.

The Marquis of Douglas and

Clydesdale.
Mrs. Douglas-Hamilton.
Mrs. P. Drakoules.
La Marquise d’Ercour.
Sister Fanny.
Dow. Lady Farrer.
Miss Eveline Faulkner.
Mrs. L. J. Wynne Ffoulkes.
The Hon. Mrs. Forbes.
Miss Ford.
Mrs. Galsworthy.
Miss M. B. Gardiner.
E. Goujou, Esq.
R. B. Cunninghame Graham,

Esq.

Mrs. Cyril Grant.
Mrs. Greene.
Miss E. de W. Grieve.
Miss M. T. Griffith
Mrs. Grove—Grady.
Miss Grﬁnberg.
The Hon. Mrs. A. B. Haig.
Mrs. Haigh.
Mrs. Hall.
Miss ‘Halliday.
The Duke of Hamilton.
The Duchess of Hamilton.
James Hopgood Hart, Esq.
Miss Di Hay.
William T. Hersey, Esq.
Edbutt Hewett, Esq.
Mrs. Norman Hill.
Miss Hughes.
Miss M. Hughes.
G. B. Hunter, Esq.
Miss Jeffreys.
Mrs. Joseph.
Mrs. Kearne.
E. B. Keiller, Esq.
Miss Georgiana Kendall.
Mr. Charles Kerr.
The Baroness de Knoop.
Miss Constance Lardelli.
Miss Latham.
Mrs. Latilla.
Miss Laver.

 




 

Life Members (COIIf(l’.).

Lady Lees.
Mrs. Legh.
Miss :\u..2rey Leigh.
Miss Lind-af-Hageby.
Miss Nora Logan.
Mrs. A. H. Luck.

Mrs. Charies Lutyens.
lVIiss lda Lybeck.

Mrs. Martin.

Marsden Edward, Esq.
Miss Martineau.

Mrs. M. Martini-tau.
Mrs. Mauran.

Miss Middlewood.

Mrs. Miller.

Miss C. \ionk.

Lady MosleX.

G. R. i \aish, ljsq.
Mrs. Nevins.

Miss l‘rlary Odette.
Miss Ol dh2..1m
Lady Paglet.
Major J. :». i
Rt. 11011.1311”

7' “GEL

lxalph Paget,

RCA/LG.

Miss St. John Partridge.
Lady Paul. 1
L. Peabody, Esq.

Miss Olive 1V. Peabody.
P. Cr. Peabody, Esq.
Mrs. Penney.

Mrs. Perkins.

Sir Robert Perks.

Lady Perks.

Miss Perry.

Mrs. Herbert Philips.
Miss Pilbrow.

The Countess of Plymouth.
Mrs. Ley borne Popham.
Ralph J Pugh 1Lsc
Mrs. hadcliﬁe.

Mrs. Redmayne.

 

 

Mrs. Lester Reed.

Miss N. Remer.

Mrs. Cecil Renton.

Mrs. Riﬂngton.

L. de la Roche,

Miss Ruxton.

Miss M. Hay Ruxton.

H.H. The Ranee of Sarawak.

Miss L. K. Schartau.

Miss Schuster.

1\»iiss A. E. Sellon.

Mrs. Cunliife Smith.

Miss Leigh Smith.

C. C. Sibthorpe, qu.

Mrs. Smith-\Vard.

Mrs. Scatter.

Mrs. Stewart-Mackenzie.

Mrs. Stockweil.

A. K. Stothert, Esq.

Mrs. Arthur Tharp.

Mrs. Ernest Thesiger.

Miss Thornhill.

Lady Tree.

Lieut.—Col. E. Turner.

Miss Helen Turner.

Mrs. \Vaddiiio‘iiam

1 ickford \\ all .,r E sq.

Mrs. 1. \Valter,

Mrs. P. M. \Valter.

Miss G. \Varren.

Miss M. Watts.

Mrs. \Vhitney.

Mrs. Bell \Vl’iyte.

T he Hon. Georgina \Vindsor-
Clive.

M. \Vineburgh, Esq.

Miss Frances 'Nood.

Miss M. K. Moods.

Mrs. Shirley \\ oohner.

Miss F. M. \Vright.

Lady Yarrow.

Esq.

 

 

17 ederated

' Society.

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisec-

tion.
Street, Edinburgh.

Hon. Sam/etazy, Miss NETTA IVORY, IO, Queensferry

 

 

 




 

 

 

The Animal Defence and.

Anti-Vivisectinn Society.

 

 

REPORTS

FOR THE YEARS 1923 AND 1924.
1923.

Since its foundation in 1906 the Animal Defence and Anti!
Vivisection Society has fought many a hard battle for mercy
and justice in the treatment of .animals, and it is difficult, in
looking back over years of struggle and work, to apportion the
greatest efforts or to measure the achievement. But the year‘
1923 was undoubtedly one of the best recorded, if by “ best 3'.
we mean ceaseless work, and the attainment of the fullest
publicity for the need of reform .and the objects aimed at.
Your Council have pleasure in presenting their report to Mem—-
bers and Associates of the Society and in doing so conﬁdently
appeal for greater support and more active help in the future.

It would be impossible, within the compass of this record,
to give a detailed account of all activities of the Society .or to
convey an adequate impression of the measures taken with the
object of influencing different sections of the public. The
work of drawing attention to cruelty, of rousing interest and
sympathy, has taken many forms—exhibitions showing barbarous
methods and the humane alternatives, demonstrations, lectures,
public meetings, appeals to Members of Parliament, Parlia—
mentary h'leetings and Conferences, letters and articles in the
Press, large displayed advertisements and house-t ~house distri—
bution. Mlany new publications have been issued and circulated
widely; steps have been taken to reach various sections of the
community, and to elucidate special points of controversy.
Publications have been compiled with the ob_'ect of meeting
objections to slaughter reform of butchers and slaughtermen,
of Members of Parliament, of purchasers of meat; others have
been addressed to women householders, to the Clergy, to Jewis-
obstructors, etc.

\

 




Your Council have aimed at making the Society a greater
educational force and centre for the raising of the general level
of the treatment of animals. Whilst no form of cruelty has
been left untouched whether in the slaughter of animals for
food, in the traffic in worn-out horses, in experiments on
animals, in sport, in the fur and feather trade, your Council
have been ever mindful of the need of constructive work, of
the general recognition of the principle of humanity to animals
as an integral factor in ethics and civilisation.

If the greatest effort has been made on behalf of humane
slaughter it is because your Council have worked in the con-
viction that this reform is of the utmost importance and that
the Anti—Vivisection movement is impeded on all sides by the
lack of humanity and consideration in the treatment of the
thousands of animals killed daily for food.

Humane Slaughter Stalls.»—Your Society held stalls at
the Olympia Horse Show, in June; at the Church Congress,
in Plymouth, in September; and at the Smithfield Cattle Show,
in December. At each of these Shows elaborate arrange—
ments were made to convey an adequate impression of the
need for reform and the practicability of the humane method
advocated. A realistic model of a typical private slaughter
house was fitted up, and a calf, a sheep and a pig were
seen prepared for slaughter amidst the primitive and
unhygienic conditions usually prevalent. The implements by
which so much suffering is caused—the pole-axe, the knife
.and the hammer—were shown, as well as the objectionable
method of ﬁxing the animals. By the side of this there
was a representation of a peaceful farm—yard, showing
animals in a happy and contented state. Humane killers and
implements for the better treatment of animals were shown
together with photographs and diagrams illustrating humane
and inhumane methods of slaughter. At each of these shows,
lasting several days, large crowds were attracted to your
Society’s stall, and the demand for information and publications
was very great. At Olympia objection was taken to the
exhibition of the slaughter house, but subsequently. withdrawn
when willingness was expressed to cover it with a curtain
which could be withdrawn by request of visitors. The result
was a great increase in the number of Visitors and a general
demand to see what was behind the curtain. Considering that
no objection is expressed to the common exhibition in
butchers’ shops in the streets of London, of rows of dripping
carcasses of sheep and pigs, of severed heads and mutilated
bodies of animals, the plea that the Society’s representation

8

 

 

 




 

 

 

would be harmful to kind-hearted visitors to the Horse Show‘
was scarcely tenable. At the Church Congress the stall was“
the means of bringing the subject to the notice of a large
number of clerical visitors. A photograph of the stall appeared
in The Daily Graphic of September 24th, and The W/estern
Independent printed an account of the stall and incidents;
relating to the work.

At Smithfield butchers, slaughterers and stock-breeders.
visited the stall in large numbers, and considerable hostility to
humane killers was expressed. It should be noted that Opposi—
tion did not take the form of attacks on your Society’s repre—-
sentation of a private slaughterhouse—some butchers and'
slaughtermen openly declared it to be “ all right ” and a faithful
representation of their “Workshop ”—but to the humane
implements and to the model exhibited of a modern and sanitary
abattoir.

l‘inss Constance \Varner was in charge of the stall on each."
occasion. At Smithﬁeld she was assisted by lVIr. John Dodds,
Miss Schartau, h/Iiss Logan, Miss Organ, Miss Delius, Miss
St. John Partridge, Miss Turner, the Marquis of Clydesdale,
the Hon. Mrs. Forbes, Mr. Eagan, Mr. Alexander and others.
It is difﬁcult to over—estimate the value of such a demonstration.
in the camp of the enemy. Several men, prominent in the meat
trade, known for their opposition to slaughter reform Visited
the stall, also butchers, who expressed their agreement with
the campaign undertaken, and their support of the use of the'
humane killer. On December 18th The Times published
a letter on the Smithﬁeld Show, by the Duchess of Hamilton,
in which she drew attention to the fact that the greater number"
of animals exhibited were consigned to butchers who do not‘
use the humane killer, but slaughter by knife and pole—axe.
She begged breeders of pigs and cattle to go beyond the
mercenary side, and as they hope for mercy themselves insist'
that animals reared by them with so much care should be‘
humaner slaughtered.

The humane slaughter exhibits were shown at a number of:
Meetings and Conferences in different parts of the country,,
including Bristol, Edinburgh, Manchester, Horsham and
Tunbridge VVells. They were also shown, and inspected by
Members of Parliament, in a Committee Room in the House.
of Commons.

An Appeal to His Majesty the King.—-Observing in the‘
course of her visits to the Smithﬁeld Cattle Show that a.—

9

 

 




 

inumber of the pigs exhibited had been sold to a bacon factory
where they are stuck without preparatory stunning, after
being hoisted alive by one hind leg to a revolving chain,
the Duchess of Hamilton wrote to the King drawing his
.attention to the urgent need of slaughter reform. Your
President received a letter in reply which was marked
“private,” and which therefore cannot be quoted here beyond
stating that His Majesty expressed the strongest possible dis-
approval of the methods of slaughter now prevalent and his
warm sympathy with the efforts made to introduce modern and
”humane methods.

Committee Appointed by the Government—Early in
:the year the Government appointed a Committee to consider
the slaughter of animals with reference to the humane killer,
.and on Feb uary 6th the Secretary of that Cabinet Committee
‘Wrote as foilows to the Animal Defence Society :—

MINISTRY OF HEALTH, WHITEHALL.
6th February, 1923.
Madam,

Having been directed to act as Secretary to the Cabinet
Committee, announced in the House of Commons in the enclosed
question and answer of the 13th December,* I have to inquire
whether there is any evidence in relation to the use of mechanical
instruments in slaughtering animals which it is desired to bring
before the Committee on behalf of the Animal Defence Society.

It may be assumed that any information which has previously
been placed at the disposal of the Local Government Board, or of
the Minister of Health, will be available to the Cabinet. Committee,
but if there is anything further which it is desired to advance, I
,am to request that it may be forwarded at a very early date.

I am, Madam,
Your obedient Servant,
A. C. SHELLEY.

The Duchess of Hamilton and lWiss Lind-af—Hageby accord-
ringly prepared a Statement of Evidence and Recommendations
together with a Memorandum on the Jewish method of
:‘slaughter which they submitted to the Cabinet Committee on
February 12th. The Statement embodies their personal
experience and the result of the study of conditions in different
:slaughterhouses in England and on the Continent. This
carefully prepared plea for legislative reform was published
and sent to the Press.

 

 

*On December 13th, 1922, Sir William Davison asked the Minister
of Agriculture whether it was the intention of the Government to introduce
legislation early next Session, making compulsory the use of the Humane
'Killer in the slaughter of all animals intended for food. Sir Montague Barlow
replied that it was proposed in the ﬁrst instance to have the whole question
considered by a Committee of the Cabinet.

10

 

 

 




 

 

 

On April 11th The Times contained the following notice :—

HUMANE SLAUGHTERING.

ANIMAL DEFENCE SOCIETY’s RECOMMENDATIONS.

In view of the second reading of the Bill designed to promote
the more humane slaughter of animals killed for food, which is
to be moved in the House of Commons on April 27, the Duchess
of Hamilton and Miss Lind-af—Hageby, on behalf of the Animal
Defence Society, have submitted to the Cabinet Committee which

is considering the question the following recommendations:—

“That legislation should be introduced without delay by which
the adoption of Clause 93 of the present Ministry of Health Bye-
Laws by all local authorities should be enforced and that its
provisions should be made applicable to all persons who slaughter
animals for food, whether in slaughter-houses or not. Such
provisions would include persons who slaughter pigs or sheep in
villages.

“ That the decision of which types of humane killers should be
included under the deﬁnition of ‘a mechanically-operated instru-
ment suitable and sufﬁcient for the purpose’ should be taken by
the Ministry of Health, after due investigation and trial, and that
local authorities should be under the obligation to see that instru—
ments of the approved types, and no others, are used in the
slaughter-houses within their districts.

“ That adequate safeguards against breaches of the Act, such
.as permission for the police and inspectors of accredited societies
for the protection of animals to enter slaughter—houses with powers
to enforce the Act, should be provided.

“That provision should be made for the licensing of all
slaughtermen and for prohibiting the slaughter of animals for
food by any person who is not duly licensed by a local authority.
That local authorities should be obliged to inquire into the training,
physical condition and ability of applicants for licences to carry
on the trade of slaughterman, and that a fee not exceeding 55.
should be charged for such a licence.”

A memorandum has also been drawn up with reference to the
Jewish method of slaughtering. It is suggested that if exemption
from the obligation to use mechanically-operated humane killers
is still to be granted to the Jews a number of reforms should
be enforced and that Jewish slaughtering should be restricted to
special slaughter—houses and placed under special inspection.

Sympathetic notices of the Statement appeared in a number
of newspapers such as the Daily Telegraph, the Daily Herald,
the Observer, John Bull, Portsmouth Times, the Nottingham
Evening Post, British Journal of Nursing, the Woman’s Leader,
the Two Worlds, the Patriot.

The [Meat Trades Journal published a report of the recom-
mendations made. After receiving the Statement, the Secretary
of the Cabinet Committee asked for 40 copies for the use of the
Government.

11

 




ﬁnk... 1“. __“._..‘..r.ﬂ .g,__ ._ '

~‘7A———2——*'—tt'-:~ ~79 Aleu—K—jl-j-me

l1i
\r
I
4
l
-\
‘l

 

 

Memorandum on the Jewish Method of
Slaughter.—As the agitation for .a Humane Slaughter law
necessitates the fullest consideration of the question of the ex-
emption claimed by Jews, the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss
Lind-af—Hageby prepared a lVIemorandum which was submitted
to the Government and issued to the Press and the public. It
contained the following exposition :—

The question of the Jewish method of slaughter cannot be put
aside as a matter for the decision of Jews only. Cruelty to animals
cannot possibly form part of any religious observance, divmely
inspired and rightly interpreted. The Jewish race, living under
British rule, should conform to the law of the land, as do other
religious bodies. There has hitherto been no law in Great Britain
enforcing and deﬁning humane slaughter. The demand is now
made for such a law, and public opinion is strongly in favour 0t
reform. As a principle, it is clearly wrong that one section or
sect of citizens should claim and obtain the right to continue a
method or slaughter which has met with universal condemnation
on account of its inhumanity. If, as is hoped, a Bill to enforce
humane slaughter meets with support from all parties, the
question of the continuance or discontinuance of the JeWISh
method becomes one of paramount importance.

Certain minimum measures of reform were proposed, such as
prohibition of casting, and the substitution of a humane pen or
sling, the enforced severance of the spinal cord at the same
time as the throat is cut, restriction to special slaughterhouse-s
under special inspection, compulsory annual Returns to
Parliament of the total number of animals killed by the Jeu'ish
Method, the compulsory stamping of Jewish—killed meat—as.
distinguished from Kosher meat and the prohibition of the sale
of such meat in ordinary butchers’ shops. “ Such prohibition.
would strictly limit the demand and supply of such meat, and
safeguard the public from unknowingly purchasing the products.
of Jewish slaughter.”

 

The tatement and the l‘vIemorandum on the Jewish
method were sent to every Member of the House of Lords
and to every Member of the House of Commons, together
with personal letters. A very large number of letters of
agreement and sympathy were received in reply, Members of:
both Houses pledging themselves to support Slaughter Reform.
The publication of these replies would fill a separate volume
and would afford significant comment on the belief held by
some timid Slaughter Reformers that public opinion is not
favourable to reform. There were some notable exceptions.
to the agreement expressed. Amongst these were found two
bishops, a well—known upholder of Vivisection, and a highly
successful manufacturer of soap, Member of the House of

12

 

 

 




 

 

Lords, who replied that the question of Slaughter Reform did
not interest him.

Opposition to Humane Slaughter Bill.—The Bill to
enforce humane slaughter, introduced by Sir Arthur
Shirley Benn, met with strong opposition from the Meat
Trade. Your Council accordingly took special steps to
overcome this opposition. On February 27th lVIr. VVilliam
Payne, Secretary of The National Federation of hieat
'Fraders’ Associations, was received by your President at
his request, the object of the visit being to ﬁnd possible
grounds of agreement. The Hon. Eric Chaplin and
.llfliss Lind-af—Hageby were present and the subject was
discussed at some length. On April 16th a conference
with the h’Ieat Trade was held at 19, St. James’s Square,
with the object of considering the Bill and possible points of
agreement. The Mfeat Trade was represented by Mr. Adams,
President of the Federation, Mfr. Payne, Secretary,
Mr. Garnham Edmonds, 34.13., Parliamentary Representative
of the Trade. The Duchess of Hamilton, Niiss Lind—af-
Hageby, Sir George Greenwood, Lord Ernest Hamilton, and
ll/Iiss Schartau represented the Humane Slaughter h/Iovement.
Representatives of the lVIeat Trade maintained that no Bill
enforcing humane slaughter could be passed until and unless
the Government instituted a “scientific” enquiry into the effect
on the meat of humane killing, whilst the representatives of
the Humane Slaughter l‘vlovement maintained that an enquiry
was unnecessary in View of the successful testing of the
humane killer by long, practical experience extending over
many years. lWiss Lind—af—Hageby pointed out that,
Whatever the opinion likely to be expressed by experts
approved by the Meat Trade, she would guarantee to produce
“ experts ” in favour of the humane killer, such as Directors
of Continental Public Abattoirs, and that what was needed
was common sense and the abandonment of prejudice.
Sir George Greenwood gave valuable information with regard
to a Slaughter Reform Bill, introduced by him in the House
of Commons some years ago, and Lord Ernest Hamilton
made practical suggestions with regard to the choice of humane
killers, with a View to meeting the objections of the Trade.

Meeting in the House of Commons,—On April 24th,
a well attended Meeting was held in a Committee Room
of the House of Commons. The Meeting was promoted by
your Society, and Sir VVilliam Davison, M.P. kindly consented
to take the chair. The following were signatories to the
invitation to the lﬁeeting and representative of different parties

13

 




in the House of Commons :—Mr. Charles G. Ammon, M.P.,
Sir \Villiam H. Davison, M.P., Mr. George Lansbury, lVI.P.,
lWrs. \Vintringham, M.P., Sir Guy Gaunt, M.P., Mr. Ben
Turner, l\/’I.P., Sir Henry Foreman, M.P., NIr. Robert Young,
l\/I.P., The Right Hon. George Lambert, 31R, Mr. Gavan
Duffy, DTP, Sir VVarden Chilcott, BIB, R’Ir. J. Lort-
VVilliams, K.C., M.P. The following were amongst'the

lﬂembers of Parliament who attended the lVIeeting:—

J. Sullivan, P. G. Gates, Sir James Agg-Gardner,
E. Scrymgeour, B. Kenyon, Sir John Butcher, Bt., R. C.
l\/Iorrison, Capt. C. Ainsworth, Sir Herbert Nield, Collingwood
Hughes, F. O. Roberts, Hugh lWorrison, E. G. Price,
Harold Briggs, T. P. O’Connor, C. VV. Crook, A. Barnes,
J. Lort-Williams, D. H. Lorimer, F. C. Harrison,
Isaac Foot, Sir Thomas Bennett, J. R. NI. Butler, NIajor C.
R. Attlee, Major D. Halstead, T. Cape, Lt.—Com. A. Cooper
Rawson, Harold Gray, Maj.-Gen. Sir F. Sykes, J. S. VVardlaw
l\/Iilne, Dr. A. Salter, D. D. Reid.

An invitation by Miss Lind-af—Hageby to Captain Fairholme
and Rh. Paddison to attend on behalf of the R.S.P.C.A. was
accepted. Mrs. Holmes, Hon. Secretary of the Ulster
S.P.C.A., attended on behalf of that Society, which supported
your Society’s efforts.

311‘. Garnham Edmonds, AIR, and lVIr. Payne were present
and represented the opposition in the Meat Trade. lVIr. A. J.
Smith, a butcher of Edgware Road, who uses the humane killer,
attended by invitation of your Society. Speeches were made
by Sir VVilliam Davison, the Duchess of Hamilton, Miss
Lind—af—Hageby, Sir Arthur Shirley Benn, lWIr. T. P.
O’Connor, lWr. Smith (in refutation of some butchers’ objec-
tions to humane slaughter of sheep), Captain Fairholme, lVIr.
Paddison and others. Bdr. Garnham Edmonds made a speech,
in which he stated that the National Federation of ﬂleat
Traders would withdraw their opposition to the Bill if the
Jews were included in the obligation to use the humane hiller.

 

 

 

 

There was an exhibition relating to Slaughter Reform which
was inspected by lVlembers at the conclusion of the Bleeting.

 

The following notice appeared in the Daily Telegraph of
April 25th :—

There was a numerous attendance of Members of the House of
Commons at a meeting yesterday, addressed by the Duchess of
Hamilton, Miss Lind—af—Hageby, and others, in support of a Bill
introduced by Sir Arthur Shirley Benn, to enforce the humane
slaughter of animals for food. Sir William Davison was in the

14

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

chair. It was stated that the principal difﬁculty arises from the’
refusal of the Jewish Community to consent to any change in the
methods they use. Indeed the Municipalities which have adopted
the Ministry of Health Bye—Laws for slaughter houses have to'
exempt animals intended for food of Jews. The Butchers’ Asso—
ciation is also reluctant to accept any compulsory bill from which
the Jews are exempt. There was a long discussion at the meeting,
and the hope was expressed that some compromise might be
arrived at. It was suggested, for instance, that there should be’
special slaughter houses for Jewish meat, and that the spine of
the animal should be severed when its throat is cut so as to avoid
pain.

Other reports appeared in the Morning Post, the Northern

Whig, the Dundee ﬂd-vertz'ser, the Jewish Chronicle, etc.

Conferences with Meat Trade in the House of
Commons.—Arising out of the Meeting in the House of.
Commons on April 24th, the representatives of the Meat:
Trade made a special request to meet the representatives of your
Society in conference in the House of Commons with a View
to discussing their different points of View and, if possible, come
to an agreement. Other representatives of the l‘deat Trade
were therefore telegraphed to .and they travelled up to London
specially to attend the Conference. The Conference was held
on April 25th in Room 13 in the House of Commons, when
Mr. Garnham Edmonds, RIB, Mr. Collinge, Alderman
Wyles, lWr. VV. Covell, E’s/Ir. Payne, and other representatives
of the hieat Trade met the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss
Lind-af—Hageby. Sir Arthur, Shirley Benn, M.P., Sir Leslie
Scott, lVI.P., and Mr. G. Stewart, 1%.qu attended and
presided part of the time. The Bill with suggestions for
amendments was discussed in detail and at great length between
6 and 8 p.m., and after an adjournment again between 9.30 p.m.
and midnight. The Conference ended in a deadlock, for Sir
Arthur Shirley Benn was unable to accept, or the Duchess of
Hamilton and Miss Lind-af—Hageby to agree to, the nullifying
amendments proposed by the Nleat Trade and which their
representatives declared to be essential to the withdrawal of
their opposition.

On the following day, April 26th, the Conference met again
in the morning, and after a prolonged discussion reached an
agreement. ‘
In consequence of this agreement the following letter was

sent to the Press and appeared in the Daily Telegraph on
April 28th :—

15

 




 

 

'To the Editor of the Daily Telegraph.
Sir,

In reference to the Bill to regulate the methods, of slaughter-
ing animals which came for second reading in the House of
Commons this afternoon, we wish it to be knmvn that the measure
now commands the support of the United Meat Trade as well as
of the Animal Protection Societies. The agreement was reached
after a series of Conferences, and the second reading of the Bill,
which was moved by Sir Arthur Shirley Benn, was actually
seconded by Mr. Garnham Edmonds, as the representative of the
National Federation of Meat Traders, a body composed of 350
butchers’ Associations. The Bill is, therefore, an agreed Bill,
except for such opposition as was represented by the honour-
able member whose objection was, owing to the time at which
the Bill came on for discussion, sufﬁcient to block progress.

Yours etc,
NINA HAMILTON AND BRANDON, L. LIND—AF—HAGEBY,
Animal Defence Society;
FLORENCE M. HOLMES. Ulster S.P.C.A.
19, St. James’s Square. April 27th.

In accordance with the arrangement made, 311'. Garnham
Edmonds, l\/I.P., in his capacity as representative of the IVIeat
'Trade, seconded the Second Reading of the Bill on April 27th.
’There was, however, opposition from Major IVIolloy, IV'Iember
for Blackpool, who objected. This unexpected obstruction was
due to the influence of Jewish opponents. The Second
Reading was, therefore, not carried.

Despite the agreement made, 311‘. Adams, President of the
National Federation of IV'Ieat Traders, wrote a letter to the
Daily Telegraph controverting the statements made on behalf
of your Society and the Ulster S.P.C.A. Mr. Adams stated
that it had been mutually .agreed that the Act should not come
into operation until a report had been issued after an exhaustive
practical and scientiﬁc investigation. This was contrary to
facts. The actual facts were published in a further letter by
the Duchess of Hamilton, which appeared in the Daily
Telegraph on Ilday 2nd.

Jewish Opposition to the Bill.—Fresh Opposition to
the Bill was notiﬁed by Lieut.-Commander The Hon. G. M.
Kenworthy, M.P., who admitted that he would oppose the Bill
on behalf of the Jews. Jewish opposition was also represented
by Mr. Gosling, M.P., and Mr. George Lansbury, RIP. On
'May lst the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind—af-Hageby
interviewed these members in the House of Commons with the
object of reaching a measure of agreement. An informal
Conference was held late in the evening attended by the afore-
said Members of Parliament, by Sir Arthur Shirley Benn, and

16

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

a representative of the Chief Rabbi, and it was agreed that the:
exemption Clause relating to Jewish slaughter, incorporated in
the 7NIinistry of Health Bye-Laws, should be inserted in the-
Bill when it reached Committee stage. It was then announced
that Jewish Opposition to the Second Reading would be with-a
drawn. The second reading of the Bill was carried at 11 p.772
on ﬂlay lst. (Owing to the subsequent dissolution of Parlia-.
ment, the Bill made no further progress.)

Lobbying.—The Second Reading of the Bill and the,
Meeting in the House of Commons 'had been preceded
and was followed by intensive and systematic lobbying
of lVIembers of the House of Commons. Your Society-
held pledges from 300 Members of Parliament to;
support Slaughter Reform and these and others were
seen in the House of Commons with the object of laying
the facts and arguments of Slaughter Reform before thme
There were days when between 20 and 30 members of Parlia-n
ment were seen on behalf of your Society and careful notes.
were made by those who had undertaken to interview them.
Amongst those who undertook this work, accelerated during the-
whole month of April, were Mrs. Holmes, Hon. Secretary of'
the Ulster S.P.C.A., a Society which gave valuable support,
Miss Constance Warner, Miss Delius, Miss Schartau, Miss;
Logan, lVIiss St. John Partridge, Mr. Brailsford. The Duchess
of Hamilton and Miss Lind—af-Hageby spent much time in:
the House of Commons, and repeatedly met Members for the-
purpose of discussing points in the political campaign. A
number of informal Parliamentary gatherings were held at
which support for the Bill was strengthened.

Ulster Campaign.—Having accepted an invitation from
the Ulster S.P.C.A., the Duchess of Hamilton, Miss;
Lind—af-Hageby and Mr. John Dodds addressed meetings in
Ulster in January. They were accompanied by the lWarquis
of Clydesdale. On January the 29th a public meeting was
held in Bangor on behalf of Slaughter Reform. There was
a crowded attendance and the Chair was taken by
Sir Thomas VVynne. A resolution was adopted calling upon
the Bangor Urban Council to take immediate steps to provide
a public abattoir. In the morning of the same day the
speakers were the guests of the Ulster S.P.C.A. at a luncheon
given in their honour at the Carlton, Belfast, at which,
Sir Robert Kennedy, K.C.M.G., was Chairman. The
Company included representatives of the Ulster Parliament,
Churches, City Council, Medical Profession, Magisterial
Bench, the Lord Mayor and Lady lylayoress, the Marquis:

17 C

 




 

wof Clydesdale, the Hon. Lady Kennedy, the Dean of Belfast,
[Captain Dixon, NLP., Sir Trevor Henderson, Sir Frederick
.Moneypenny, the City Chamberlain, Mr. R. j. lIcCool, l\/I.P.,
Parliamentary Secretary to the hiinister of Education,
Major MCLean, the High Sheriff, NIajor—General Spens,
.Mrs. Holmes, Mrs. lVIcLean, and others. The Lord hIayor
welcomed the guests and emphasised the useful and excellent
work done throughout the city and province by the Ulster
'S.P.C.A. The speakers emphasised the importance of
humane education and of the spread of principles of kindness
and justice to animals generally. The Duchess of Hamilton,
in the course of her speech in reply, described the aims and
objects of the special Slaughter Reform campaign undertaken
by the Animal Defence Society. On January 30th the
guests addressed the Annual K'Ieeting of the Ulster Society,
which was held in the Town Hall of Belfast, the Lord lWayor
being in the Chair. It was a large and influential meeting.
At the conclusion of the meeting a number of butchers told
hir. Dodds that they had come to the meeting to oppose, but
'had remained to find themselves in agreement with what had
been said with reference to the need of Slaughter Reform.
The public meeting in the Town Hall was foilowed by a
reception given by the Lady Mayoress, which was attended
by a large number of people interested in animal protection.
’During their stay at Belfast, the three representatives of the
Animal Defence Society paid a visit to the Belfast Abattoir.
(The Lord NIayor of Belfast accompanied them on this visit.
”They were shown over the slaughter house and saw various
operations in connection with the preparation of meat, but
'they were not shown the actual process of slaughter. In the
course of a talk with the Superintendent they found that this
gentleman was wholly opposed to the introduction of the
“humane killer.

Reports of the meetings and pictures of the speakers appeared
in the Belfast Telegraph, Belfast News-Letter, Northern
.th'g, etc.

Exhibition and Meeting in Bristol.——-Extensive measures
‘for arousing interest in Bristol in Slaughter Reform were
‘taken before the public meeting, which was held there on
March 26th. The Society’s Exhibition of farmyard animals,
objects and instruments relating to Slaughter Reform was
‘held at the Barton VVarehouses for one week. owing to the
generous offer of the late lVIr. H. Latham. The Exhibition
attracted much public attention and helped materially to make
‘the meeting a success. The organisation of the meeting was

18

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

in the hands of lVIiss Constance Warner, who was generously
assisted by a number of friends of animals in Bristol. The
Chair was taken by the Duchess of Hamilton, and the
speakers announced were the Archdeacon of Swindon, Miss
Lind—af—Hageby, and Miss Constance Warner. An
unexpected and highly effective speaker who presented himself
at the last minute was RTr. Ernest Evans, Chairman of the
“ United Tanners’ Federation of Great Britain and Ireland.”
lVIr. Evans handed to the Chairman several tanned foreheads
of animals, showing that 7, 8, 10 and 12 blows had been struck
with the pole-axe. lWr. Evans responded to the invitation
to address the meeting and stated that, though he had no
connection with the Society, he had collected evidence as
to the facts of killing animals by the pole-axe. He had taken
at random the first 100 hides, and the following were the
figures showing the number of blows :— °

 

Blows. Hides. Blows, Total.

1 55 55
2 3O 60
3 10 30
4 1 4
5 3 15
1.0 l 10

100 174

There was some opposition from butchers. One of them,

Councillor T. VVise, was invited to state the case on behalf of
the Bristol butchers, which he did. The following resolution
was moved by Councillor Miss Smith, seconded by l‘vlr.
Meade-King, and carried unanimously :——“That this meeting
of citizens of Bristol urges the City Council to adopt the
Model Bye—Laws relating to slaughterhouses, issued by the
Ministry of Health, including Clause 9B.” The meeting
concluded with a show of lantern slides relating to the subject,
and an explanatory address by lV’Iiss Constance Warner. The
supporters of the meeting included :—

The Duchess of Beaufort, The Rt. Hon. The Lord Mayor of
Bristol, The Lord Bishop of Bristol, The Bishop of Clifton, The
Dean of Bristol, The Archdeacon of Bristol, Lady Brain, Sir
John Swaish, The Rev. Canon Welchman, The Rev. Canon Wilkins,
The Rev. Canon Lee. The Revs. T. Gray Atkinson, I. Bateman-
Champain, T. J. Bowen, E. P. Cole, W. W. B. Emery, E, P.
Gillson, R. C. Grifﬁn, H. C. Mander, Fred Norton, S. Ernest
Swann, Dr. H. Arnold Thomas, E. Thomas, E. Thompson, M, E.
Thorold, E. P. VVillson, Lt.-Col. W. A. Cowham (8A.) ;
Dr. Peake, Professor Helen Wodehouse, Professor Geo. Hare
Leonard, Councillors E. J. Dunscombe, A. E. Hill, Miss Methven
Brownlee, Miss H. Cashmore, Mrs. Bruce Cole, Mrs. W. C. H.
Cross, Miss Garnett, .Mrs. Borrow Hill, Miss Alice Sturge,
Mrs. Hunter Robertson, Messrs, E. H. Caley, Frank N. Cowlin,
]. T. Francombe, J. H. Gibbs, E. T. Parker, Ernest Walls.

19

 




 

The Western Daily Press and the Bristol Times and'
lllirror gave long and sympathetic accounts of the meeting.
On March 24th the W/estern Daily Press published an
article by Mr. Arthur Barnett, blinister of the Hebrew
congregation of Bristol, in which he declared that he had'
never before listened to such “miserable cant and hypocrisy,"
that it was “ a positively nauseating spectacle to behold ladies
of refinement and reverend gentlemen shedding crocodile tears
over the method by which an animal is killed for food, and
yet declaring that they loved their chops and steaks.”
Mr. Barnett proceeded to give a lengthy description of the
Jewish method of slaughter, declaring that Judaism has nothing
to learn from non-Jews about kindness to animals, and that
“ it is mere presumption for Christians to dictate to Jews on‘
the virtue of humaneness to animals when they cannot even.
devise methods for the humane slaughter of one another.” On
March 28th the Western Daily Press contained a long letter
from the Duchess of Hamilton in reply to l\Ir. Barnett, in'
which she expressed her disagreement with Air. Barnett’s
contention that Jews, as Jews, are above criticism, and only
answerable to their own consciences. Other sects and.
religious communities had to submit to the laws of the
country. “Many cruel and so-called religious practices,
such as the burning of widows in India, have been suppressed.”
She pointed out that it is a matter of simple and primitive morals
to distinguish between taking life painlessly, and killing with
unnecessary cruelty and with prolonged pain and suffering ”;
also, that the two offending ladies, who addressed the meeting,
were both abstainers from meat.

Your Council note, with great satisfaction, that the Bristol
l\/Iaster Butchers’ Association subsequently adopted a resolution
moved by Mr. G. G. Babbage, that “a recommendation go
from this meeting to the whole of the Trade throughout
Bristol and its environs that the Swedish Killer (Animal
Defence Society’s) be obtained and put into immediate
operation.” The resolution was seconded by lVIr. F. Parson,
and the adoption was recorded in the Western Daily Press
under the heading “ Humane Slaughter. The Passing of the
Pole-Axe.”

Manchester Meeting and Demonstration—On
March 2nd your Society held a successful demonstration of
humane slaughter in the Manchester Public Slaughterhouse,
which attracted much public attention. lVIlSS VVarner had
spent some time in lV'lanchester preparing for the demonstration.
She received much help from Nlr. Richard Stone. Yo:ur

20

 

 

 

 




 

 

“’Council invited a number of representative people in Manchester
’to this demonstration: members of the City Corporation, the
Church, the Press, Port of Manchester Ship and Canal
Ofﬁcials, Medical Ofﬁcers, Veterinary Surgeons, etc. The
demonstration was held at the premises of Messrs. Thomas
Knowles, butchers, and through their courtesy two bullocks,
two sheep and two pigs were provided. A large number of
butchers and slaughtermen attended the demonstration as well
.as those who had come by special invitation. Mr. Minor,
Chief Veterinary Surgeon at the Public Slaughterhouse, was
present and subsequently inspected the meat. The Duchess of
Hamilton, Miss Warner and Miss Logan were present.
speaking to the guests of your Society’s objects in arranging
demonstrations. .

Prior to the actual demonstration Miss Lind-af-Hageby
addressed the assembly in the slaughterhouse. She stood on a
crutch for killing sheep. She asked for open-minded considera-
tion of the many points—~humane and hygienic—in favour of
reform. The animals were shot efficiently and painlessly by
Mr. Alexander. A number of experts remained for the ex—
amination of the meat, which was found to be sound and in
excellent condition.

Of the demonstration the [Manchester City News (March
10th) wrote :—

At a demonstration arranged by the society yesterday in the
City Abattoir it was shown that small animals, such as sheep
and calves, can be killed almost instantaneously and painlessly
by the humane killer, and that large beasts, no matter how
fractious or hard—headed, are stunned instantly. Given a certain
amount of care, the instrument is perfectly safe in use. Carlisle
Public Slaughterhouses have used the humane killers for twenty-
three years, and report perfect success throughout that period.
There is no question that bleeding is as free as with the ordinary
methods, and there is a great practical advantage that meat
from humanely—slaughtered animals is never “fevered” from
fright in the animal, as is frequently the case otherwise.
“‘Fe-vered” meat is dangerous to the public, and the public must
look after its own welfare.

And Mr. Minor stated in public in reference to this demons-
tration that “ for all effectual purposes the animals died or
were rendered totally unconcious immediately.”

On Monday, March 5th, the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss
Lind—af-Hageby gave a Public Reception at the Midland Hotel,
.Manchester. lVIiss Warner and lVIiss Schartau were present
.and helped to receive the guests. There was a large attend-
ance, including many members of the Meat Trade, several of
*whom had participated in the demonstration.

21

 




 

 

 

 

Speeches were made by your President and Hon. Director,
by lVIr. Cuming Walters, Editor of the [Manchester City
News, Mr. Oaten, Mr. VValter Heap, Ex—President of the
National Federation of Meat Traders, Dr. B. Solomon, Senior
Rabbi of the Manchester Old Hebrew Congregation, and
lVIr. Dawson, head slaughterman of the Abattoir. The
meeting was at times very lively, as the speeches for and against
humane killing were made, and strong feeling shown on all
sides. “Jews,” said Dr. Solomon, “ require no lessons in
mercy from their Christian brothers.” Mr. Heap stated he
did not believe Miss Lind—af—Hageby had a forehead of a
bullock with 13 ’holes in it.

Miss Lind—af-Hageby: “I don’t tell lies! I shall have great
pleasure in showing it to Mr. Heap.”

Mr. Heap went on to say he was not suggesting that Miss

Lind-af—Hageby had been lying, and that he agreed with her that
the Jewish method was cruel.—
(Manchester Guardian, March 6th, 1923.)
Mr. J. Cuming Walters, in advocating the use of the “humane
killer,” said he made no allegation whatever against butchers. of
any wanton or unnecessary cruelty in their slaughter of animals.
But the humane element had to be considered. In the use of
the poll-axe and the knife an accident was always possible. At
a crucial moment a butcher, however skilled or experienced,
might lose his nerve, might make a miscalculation, might slip, or
might prove unequal to his task, and then a terrible casualty
would occur. In place of human fallibility a mechanically precise
instrument was offered. If its efﬁcacy were established, as reports-
and statistics went to show, it was to the interest of butchers
themselves to adopt it, and he appealed to the trade to give it a fair
trial, and not to be afraid to adopt a new method if it were proved
to be superior to the old. All of them were united in the desire
to be merciful, and in the name of mercy he would ask the butchers
to adopt a mode of killing which could be shown to be humane
without impairing the value of the meat to be consumed——

(Manchester City News, March 10th, 1923.)

There was an exhibition of implements and objects. relating
to Slaughter Reform in the hall.

Valuable and informative articles in support of your
Society’s Slaughter Reform Campaign, and reporting the
demonstration and meeting, were published in the Manchester
Guardian and the Manchester City News. There were also
reports and pictures in the Daily Dispatch, in the London
Evening Standard and other papers.

Meetings.——-On January 25th a meeting for Slaughter
Reform was held at 19, St. James’s Square, by invitation of
the Duchess of Hamilton. There were present, Mrs. Miller,
Mrs. Douglas-Hamilton, Lady Clifford Cory, Miss Abadam,
Mrs. Mona Caird, Mrs. Balfour, Mrs. Ernest Thesiger,

22

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Lord Ernest Hamilton, Mr. Compton Rickett, Miss KearneM
Miss Delius, Miss Logan, Miss Schartau, Miss Lind-af-.
Hageby. The Duchess of Hamilton was in the Chair.

A Slaughter Reform Meeting was. held at 35, Old Bond

Street, on January 26th, with the object of discussing the best;
methods of propaganda.

On March 6th your Vice-President, Miss Abadam,
lectured to the Feminist League on “ VVhat animals pay for-
our food, fur, feathers and drugs.”

On March 15th, a crowded meeting was held in Horsham.
The Chair was taken by Lady Burrell, J.P. The speakers.
were the Duchess of Hamilton, Miss Lind-af-Hageby and;
Miss Warner. There were present on the platform, amongst;
others, Sir lV'Ierrick Burrell, Bart, Lady Hurst, Mrs. Latilla,
Miss Piggott, Lord Malcolm Douglas-Hamilton, Captain
Savile, the Rev. E. D. L. and Mrs. Harvey. Some 700‘:
people attended the meeting, and there was strong opposition
from a party of nearly 200 butchers. There were frequent
protests, interruptions, and once or twice cries of “idiotic."
Hostile butchers were allowed to address the meeting from the
platform, and amongst those who availed themselves of this;
privilege were Mr. W. Payne, Secretary of the National
Federation of Meat Traders, who spoke for over 20 minutes,
and who was eloquent on the subject of the cruelties
perpetrated in fox-hunting, pheasant shooting, and hare-
hunting, Mr. E. E. Cripps, who declared that the humane
killer was neither safe nor reliable, Mr. G. Nailard, etc.
Your Society’s exhibition of Slaughter Reform objects and.
implements was held in connection with this meeting, and
Miss Warner showed lantern slides. The meeting was fully
reported in the IV est Sussex County Times.

On April 11th Miss Lind-af—Hageby lectured on Slaughter
Reform at the Isis Club; on April 17th a Slaughter Reform
meeting was held at Tunbridge Wells, at which the
Duchess of Hamilton, Miss Lind-af—Hageby and Miss Warner
spoke. There were present on the platform Alderman
H. Elwig, J.P., and the Revs. Canon Oliver, and ‘
Hugh Miller. A resolution was passed in support of
the Humane Slaughter Bill before the House of Commons,
and it was decided that a copy should be sent to the Member
of Parliament for the Tunbridge Division. The meeting was
reported in the Tunbridge Wells Advertiser.

On May 3rd the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Warner
spoke on Slaughter Reform at the Forum Club. On
May 16th Miss Nora Logan lectured on Slaughter Reform at-

23

 




 

.Herne Bay. A report of the meeting appeared in the Herne
.Bay Press of May 19th. On June 13th Miss Lind—af—Hageby
addressed a Garden Party at the house of Mrs. St. Hill, near
Maidenhead. On June 15th the Duchess of Hamilton took
the Chair .at a large meeting in connection with the Animals’
Welfare Week at the Queen’s Hall. She spoke on the
foundation of the Animal Protection Movement, and at some
length on Anti—Vivisection. Other speakers were Dean Inge,
Airs. Baillie-VVeaver, and Sir Edward Marshall Hall. On
October let Miss Lind-af—Hageby lectured at the l‘v’Iortimer
Hall, London, on Anti—Vivisection and other aspects of
humanity to animals. On October 26th and October 3lst
the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind-af—Hageby spoke on
the suppression of cruelty to animals at meetings in the West
of England. On November 4th lWiss Lind-af-Hageby
lectured to a large meeting of men at Ilford. On
November 6th she spoke at the Theosophical Society’s
meeting at Brompton Road on Anti-Vivisection. On
November 16th the Duchess of Hamilton lectured on
“Brotherhood and Animal Welfare” at a conference at the
Mortimer Hall, held under the auspices of a number of
Humanitarian Societies. On November 22nd she spoke on
Slaughter Reform at Purley. On November 23rd she spoke
to 100 delegates of the National Council of VVomen, the
subject being “ Slaughter Reform and Election VVork,” in
consequence of which they decided to put a question in regard
to humane killing, to all candidates. On December 7th she
lectured to the Women’s Catholic League on Slaughter
Reform.

On January 18th lVIiss Lind-af—Hageby spoke on killing for
sport at a meeting at the Caxton Hall. The meeting was
organised by Mr. E. G. Smith, of the League of Peace and
Freedom. The Chair was taken by Mr. H. Baillie-VVeaver,
and the other speakers were Mr. Edward Carpenter and
Lady Claire Annesley. The meeting was reported in The
Times and the [Manchester Guardian.

In February a meeting was held in the house of
lVIrs. Drakoules, attended by lWembers of both Houses of
Parliament. Mr. Brailsford spoke on Slaughter Reform.‘

Miss Warners’ Lectures and Work. —In the early part
of January lWiss VVarner went to Manchester and Sheffield
in order to interview members of the Town Councils,
representatives of the Market Committees and other public
bodies, leading butchers, and others, with a view to arousing
interest in Slaughter Reform and preparing the way for

24

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

subsequent activities and possible meetings. On January 15th
lVIiss \Varner went to VVoolwich, where she addressed a
gathering of young men. On the 16th she went to Horsham,
where she spoke twice and made arrangements for a public»
meeting with the object of urging the extension of the
application of Clause 9 (B), so as to include all animals, as
it was only operative for beasts and pigs. On January 25th
lVIiss VVarner gave a lecture on Slaughter Reform at the
Women’s Institute, and went on to Bristol, where she spent:
some time in starting an active Slaughter Reform campaign,
with subsequent valuable practical results. Early in February
Miss Warner spoke at meetings in Stratford, Boxmoor,
Chichester, VVestdean Village, Shipley and Burnham-on—Sea.
On February 22nd Miss Warner addressed a well—attended
meeting at Dover, at which Lady Violet Astor presided. Your
Society’s excellent lantern slides; were shown and much
interest aroused. The Assistant Secretary of the Meat
Trades Federation attended the meeting and spoke in-
opposition, which only served to enhance the interest. On
February 27th Miss Warner spoke at Petworth. On
March 2nd she travelled to Manchester and mad'e‘preparations
for the Humane Slaughtering Demonstration which the
Animal Defence Society held in the Abattoir on the following-
day. On March 5th she spoke at the Society’s meeting in
lWanchester. During the latter part of March Miss Warner-
spoke at Pevensey, and organised and spoke at two large ‘
meetings at Horsham and Bristol. At the end of March and
in the early part of April Miss Warner lectured at Cowfold,
Bignor, Plaxton, Storrington and VVorthing, where she had
excellent meetings and aroused much interest in Humane-
Slaughtering among the butchers, as well as the public. On
lX'Iay 2nd, 3rd and 9th she spoke at Mayﬁeld, the Forum
Club, London, and Scaynes Hill. On May 16th lVIiss Warner
addressed a large meeting of the Women’s Institutes at the
Queen’s Hall in London on Slaughter Reform. The meeting
was attended by 2,500 women, and a resolution calling on»
the Government to give facilities for the Humane Slaughter-
Bill was carried.

During lMay Miss Warner took energetic part in the
lobbying, which the Society organised in the House of'
Commons on behalf of the Slaughter Reform Bill introduced
by Sir Arthur Shirley Benn. Meetings were addressed/by-
Miss Warner during the latter part of May and June at
Crawley Down, Reigate, Petworth, Dormansland, and
Pulborough, and visits paid to Manchester and Birkenhead.

25
D

 




 

 

During the last week of June Miss Warner arranged and
superintended the Society’s Exhibition and Stall at the Horse
Show, Olympia. During July lectures were given at
Henfield, Shamley Green, Betchworth, Burstow, Flimwell, and
Little Bookham, at Peacehaven and South Newington. In
September Miss Warner presided at the Society’s Stall and
Slaughter House Exhibition at the Plymouth Church Congress.
where new ground was prepared and excellent work done.
During the early part of October meetings were addressed at
Chobham, Fittleworth and Lancaster. The meeting in
Lancaster was of special importance as it was the large
County Meeting of the Women’s Institutes, which is attended
by representatives from the whole of the county. On
October 15th Miss VVarner went to Edinburgh, Where she
arranged and presided over a Slaughter Reform Stall at the

Annual Meeting of the National Council of Women. She

found a great deal of ignorance and indifference among the
delegates, but succeeded in arousing their interest, and many
went away determlned to work up their own districts on the

question. Miss Warner visited the Edinburgh Abattoir, and

discussed the Humane method of slaughtering wi 11 the
Authorities. At the end of October she addressed a large
number of delegates of the Middlesex V’Vomen’s Institutes at
the Guildhall, Westminster, and also spoke at the Annual
Meeting of the Women’s Institutes at Truro, which was
.attended by representatives from the whole of Cornwall. At
Truro she also spoke to a Children’s Meeting. Subsequent
meetings were held at Fairlight, l‘vIawgan, IVIanaccan,
Pendean and Penzance. On November 5th lWiss VVarner
spoke at Lyghe, and the rest of the month was spent in Ulster,
where a number of gatherings were addressed. In the early
part of December Miss Warner was in charge of the
Society’s Slaughter Reform Stall at the Smithﬁeld Cattle
Show. On December 15th IVIiss VVarner spoke on Slaughter
Reform at the Suffolk Women’s Institutes Annual lVIeeting,
where she met with much interest.

The Annual Business Meeting was held at Prince’s
Restaurant on November let. The Duchess of Hamilton
presided. Mr. Samuel Hopgood Hart moved the adoption
of the Report and the re-election of the Executive Council.
Mfr. Hart said that he felt convinced that Victory would be
achieved sooner than they realised. He referred to the
connection between meat eating and intemperance. The
resolution was seconded by the Baroness de Knoop, who, in
a few moving words, urged all present to give personal

’3
(5‘7

 

 

 




 

 

service to the Cause. The Duchess of Hamilton expressed
regret that Miss Lind-af-Hageby who, in spite of
illness, had gone to Birmingham to attend the demon—
stration of slaughter, was now unable to be present.
In her absence the Duchess read the Annual Report and gave
an account of the Society’s activities and plans for the iuture.
Reports of the Annual Meeting appeared in The Times, the
Morning Post, the Daily Telegraph, the Daily Express, the
Glasgow Herald, the Bristol Evening News, the Yorkshire
Telegraph, the Northern Echo, the Birmingham Evening
Dispatch, and other papers. Amongst those present were
Mrs. Miller, Chairman of the Executive Council, The
Marquis of Clydesdale, Lord Ernest Hamilton, Sir George
Greenwood, The Hon. lVIrs. Forbes, Mrs. Hedley Thomson,
:Mrs. Ernest Thesiger, l\/Iiss St. John Partridge, Mrs. George
Arliss, Mr. R. S. Ayling, Mrs. Bailey—VVorthington, l\/Iiss
-Logan, Miss Delius, Miss Schartau.

Publications.—Amongst the new publications issued in
1923 your Council would specially draw attention to the
following :-—

Statement of Evidence and Recommendations by the
Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind—af—Hageby; Report on
the Demonstration of Slaughtering Methods held in Birming-
ham by the Duchess of Hamilton, Miss Lind-af-Hageby and
Mr. John Dodds; Memorandum on the Jewish Method of
Slaughtering; The Financial and Business Side of the Jewish
hlethod of Slaughter; An Urgent Appeal to Women; Essential
Points in Slaughter Reform; Facts About Our Slaughter—
houses, by John Dodds; Slaughter Reform: Give a Thought
'to the Animals; An Expert Refutes Objections to the Humane
Slaughter Bill, by John Dodds; The Humane Slaughter of
Animals : Letter by Baillie Brechin.

Other publications were reprinted and large editions issued.
The circulation of the Society’s publications was very large and
the demand world—wide.

Further Articles and Letters in the Press.——On
February 3rd an article by Miss Lind—af—Hageby, entitled
“ Slaughterhouse Brutality,” appeared in John Bull, On February
5th letters by the Duchess of Hamilton appeared in the
Belfast Telegraph and Northern Whig, on February 14th
an article by Mr. Austin Harrison, entitled “ We Want the
Humane Killer,” in the Evening Standard. This was followed
by a number of letters in support, including one by Miss
L. K. Schartau. In March an article by the Duchess of

i) '7
g..- .1

 




 

 

.7 . .ﬁ, Haydn“. -5..._-.-.~_._..-~ .. t

Hamilton appeared in the English Review, on April 13th a
letter from her in the British W’eeely. On April 21st there
was an article in support of the Society’s work in John Bull.
On April 28th a column letter by the Duchess of Hamilton
appeared in the Alarming Post with reference to the Jewish:
opposition to Slaughter Reform. The same day the [Morning
Post had a Leading Article entitled “Vested Cruelty.” On
l\r'lay 2nd a letter by the Duchess of'Hamilton dealing with
the Jewish method of slaughter, entitled “Jewish Opposition.
to the New Bill,” appeared in the Times in reply to Dr. Hertz,
the Chief Rabbi. On May 7th another letter by the Duchess
of Hamilton in the Times in reply to lV’lr. Leonard Hill. On
May 10th another letter by her in reply to the Jews. On
May 30th there was an article in the Daily Graphic entitled
“ Jewish Reply to the Criticism of the Duchess of Hamilton.”
On June 5th an article appeared in the Blackpool Times. On
August 18th, a noticeof the Society’s policy in Stead’s Review,
lWelbourne. On August 28th a letter by Bliss Schartau
appeared in the Hertforilsliire Express. In September an
article by Dr. Rowlands on Slaughter Reform was published
in the English Revie-u'. l‘vlajor J. B. Paget gave a donation
for the purpose of circulating this number of the English
Review, which your Society sent to every l‘vlember of the
House of Commons.

Providing Humanely Killed Meat—During the year
much progress was made in obtaining pledges from butchers
that they should only provide meat derived from animals
humanely killed. Your Society’s collection of testimonials-
from butchers who use the Humane Killer was greatly enlarged-
In February a notice was issued announcing that a well—known
ﬁrm of London butchers, hiessrs. R. Allen 8% Co., 117, Mount
Street, purveyors of meat by Royal Warrant to His lVlajesty
the King, had undertaken to provide such meat. This was
followed by a notice that lVIr. A. J. Smith of Edgware Road
also undertook to supply meat derived from humanely killed
animals. Mr. Smith has upon several occasions done kind
services for your Society and arranged Demonstrations of
humane slaughter.

Adoption of Humane Slaughter by the London Countv
Council.——On lVlarch 7th the L.C.C., after exhaustive investi?
gation, adopted Clause 98 of the lVlinistry of Health Bye-Laws,
thereby bringing 153 Slaughterhouses within the operation of'
the Bye-Law. lWr. Andrew Taylor, for some time Mayor of
Hampstead, who attended and expressed great satisfaction at

28

 

 

 




 

 

 

one of your Society’s Slaughter Reform Demonstrations in
London in 1922, did a great deal to bring about this happy
result.

Visits to Foreign Abattoirs.——On October 16th the
Duchess of Hamilton and l\/Iiss Lind—af-Hageby paid a Visit
to the Abattoir at Berne, Switzerland, which they inspected
thoroughly, under the guidance of the Superintendent, lWonsieur
le Docteur Noyer, who has rendered valuable assistance to
the Cause of Slaughter Reform on many occasions. On
October 17th, they, accompanied by lVIiss Delius, visited the
Abattoir in Zfirich and were shown the slaughtering work
carried out there. On October 18th they met Madame Simons
in Paris and discussed with her the efforts made to introduce
more humane methods at La Villette in Paris.

Ambulance—On June 11th the Lingﬁeld ambulance,
belonging to your Society for carrying injured animals, was,
at the request of l‘JIadame Simons, handed over to an Animal
Protection Society in Paris, for use in connection with the
Paris slaughterhouses.

The Meat Trade’s Demonstration of Slaughtering
Methods in Birmingham.—The record of your Society’s
efforts at friendly co-operation with the officials of the Meat
Trade is worthy of a volume to itself. For the blind support
of the old cruel methods of slaughter, of obsolete implements
upheld by pride of Trade, and wilful ignorance of humani—
tarian feeling, affords, in its practical expressions, interesting
comment on the psychology of the butcher’s trade. (It should,
however, be stated emphatically that there are noble and notable
exceptions amongst the rank and file of butchers and amongst
some leaders of the Trade, of men who have whole—heartedly
supported your Society in its campaign.) The following letter,
addressed by lV/Iiss Lind-af—Hageby 50 the National Federation
of Rieat Traders’ Associations on ‘ctober 23, and the reply,
throw light on the worthlessness of agreements made with
officials of the Mieat Trade and of the unreliability, not only
of their promises, but of their actions.

ANIMAL DEFENCE AND ANTI—VIVISECTION SOCIETY.
October 23rd, 1923.
MR. W. PAYNE, _
Secretary National Federation of Meat Traders’ Associations.

DEAR SIR,

l have noticed with increasing surprise the attitude towards the
Slaughter of Animals Bill taken up by the National Federation of
Meat Traders’ Associations, and expressed in successive numbers
of the Meat Trades Journal. In the issue of that Journal of the

29

 




 

 

.. _, . W...~.A._.._-...w' ‘4...— «.mm- - ...., wﬁ— --‘_.._..__.--,_ -. -. . _.

18th inst. I read “The Slaughter of Animals Bill will have to be
fought and fought strenuously,” and the Resolution of opposition,
passed by the National Federation at the meeting at Southcnd,
records that the Federation will absolutely oppose the provisions of

the Bill, and will “not agree to a compromlse of any description."

I also note that you have reprinted in pamphlet form and are
circulating with the purpose of combating “the activities of the so-
called humane—ists” the speech recently made by Mr. A. E. Marsh,
of Birmingham, in opposition to the Bill and in support of the
present methods of slaughter.

The inconsistency and breach of faith involved in this attitude
would be incredible were it not recorded in your own Journal.
May I remind you that your own Representative in the House of
Commons, Mr. Garnham Edmonds, actually moved the Second
Reading of this Bill, and that this was done after a series of
Meetings and Conferences in which the Duchess of Hamilton and
I took part as Representatives of this Society? At Horsham, on
March 15th, we extended the hospitality of our platform to you
personally and you then declared that the Federation was prepared
to support the present Bill. introduced by Sir Arthur Shirley Benn.
Conferences were held on February 27th and April 16th at the house
of the Duchess of Hamilton in London; on the latter occasion
Mr. Adams, President of your Federation, Mr. Garnham Edmonds,
and yourself took part in a detailed discussion with us on the points
of reform which we urge. Further Conferences with us followed on
a Meeting of Members of Parliament, called by our Society on April
24th last, at which Mr. Edmonds stated on behalf of the Meat
Trade that opposition would be dropped if no exemption were
granted to Jews under the proposed Act. Further Conferences
held in a Committee Room of the House of Commons were attended
by Mr. Collinge, Alderman VVyles, Mr. W. Covell, and yourself, and
the result of our combined deliberations was a friendly and detailed
agreement in support of the Bill, after which it passed Second
Reading. In face of this, you now publish in pamphlet form the
speech by Mr. Marsh, in which the following sentence occurs: “I
ﬁnd it difﬁcult to understand why the Government should have
allowed so inequitable a Bill to pass its Second Reading.” Con-
sidering that your own Representative moved the Second Reading
of the Bill, after elaborate, lengthy, and serious Conferences with
ourselves, the circulation of this statement by your Federation is,
I believe, unique in the annals of political conduct.

The speech by Mr. Marsh, now circulated by you as an authori-
tative statement of facts and conclusions in opposition to Slaughter
Reform, is a singularly illuminating example of the prejudice and
misstatement upon which your opposition appears to be based.

I propose to publish this letter in justiﬁcation of the apparent
waste of time and energy expended by the Duchess of Hamilton
and myself in arranging and attending Conferences, which were
meaningless. I beg to put on record my deep regret at the failure
of our attempts to achieve friendly co—operation with the Federation
in a Reform long overdue and of a practicability established bv
long and successful experience. '

Yours faithfully,
(Signed) L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY.

30

 

 

 




 

 

 

The following reply was received from Mr. Payne, Secretary
of the National Federation of MeatTraders’ Associations :---~
November 5th, 1923.
Miss LIND-AF-HAGEBY,
The Animal Defence and Anti—Vivisectjon Society,

35, Old Bond Street, W.1.
DEAR MADAM,

SLAUGHTERING OF ANIMALS BILL.

I duly received your favour of the 23rd ult., and much regret
that extreme pressure of business, involving travelling long dis—-
tances in the Provinces, has prevented an earlier reply.

In View of the drastic provisions of this Bill, and the serious
menace to important Home Industries, which must inevitably follow
its addition to the Statute, I. fail entirely to understand the surprise
expressed in your said favour.

I am, however, now in a position to state, for the information
of your Society, that His Majesty’s Government, having declined
to arrange for the Investigation for which we asked, and which:
this Federation deems to be indispensable to an equitable settlement
of the vexed question as to the best possible methods of slaughter
for “food animals,” we have arranged for a thoroughly scientiﬁc
and practical demonstration by Mechanical Implements and the-
Poleaxe, etc., at Birmingham, under the auspices of that Corporation.

Invitations for ofﬁcial representatives from your Society with a.
demonstrator are being despatched to-day, and I trust your Society-
will be represented on this occasion.

Faithfully yours,

(Signed) WM. PAYNE,
Secretary-

Despite this experience your Council, after careful considera-~
tion, accepted the invitation by the Meat Trade to attend a
demonstration of slaughtering methods to be held in Birming-
ham on November 20th. This was supposed to be an impartial
inquiry, yet in the Meat Trades Journal of October 18th,
1923, the opposition of the National Federation of Meat
Traders to the Humane Slaughter Bill was expressed as
follov's—“The Slaughter, of Animals Bill will have to be
fought and fought strenuously,” and the same number of this
Journal published a Resolution of opposition to the Bill, passed
by the Federation, recording that it will absolutely oppose the
provisions of the Bill and will “not agree to a compromise of
any description.” There was also an announcement that the
Federation were ofﬁcially supporting and circulating in pamphlet
form a speech by Mr. A. E. Marsh in which the use of the
Humane Killer was condemned on the grounds that it would
not lessen the sufferings of animals, that shot animals cannot
be properly bled, and that meat from such animals is dangerous
to public health and decomposes rapidly.

31

 




 

 

It should be noted that the usual procedure appertaining to
an unbiassed Inquiry was abandoned. The findings of the
Federation against the use of the Humane I\lll€1‘ had been

published before the Inquiry was held.

The Federation invited the Animal Defence Society to send
three representatives to the Demonstration together With a
demonstrator to carry out slaughtering by methods advocated
by the Society. The invitation to send representatives was
accepted, but that of providing a demonstrator was declined
for good and sufficient reasons which were given in a letter
from Miss Lind-af—Hageby to the Secretary of the l‘Ieat Trade
in a letter from which we quote the followmg :—

With regard to demonstrating the use of the Humane Killer
advocated by our Society, and the quality of the meat produced
the Executive Council have made it a rule not to hold demonstra—
tions unless they are fully cognisant of and in a position to direct
“arrangements for selection of animals, slaughter preparations and
testing of the meat produced. In this case all arrangements will
clearly be under the sole control of your Federation. Judging by
the hostility to the use of the Humane Killer, expressed by your
Federation in the Meat Trades Journal, to which I made reference
in. my letter of the 23rd. ult., I am led to assume that the
principal object of this Demonstration is the maintenance of the
attitude of opposition to reform to which the Federation has
already so forcibly committed itself.

In November last this Society organised a Demonstration of the
use of the Humane Killer 1n London, reports of which appeared
in the Press. The meat produced—beef, veal, mutton and pork——
was subsequently bought, exhibited and sold by Harrod’s Stores
and declared to be of excellent quality. Arrangements are being
made for further Demonstrations to be held under the auspices of.
thls Soc1ety and I trust that representatives of your Federation will
accept invitations to attend them.

The Demonstration Was held in the Birmingham Abattoir in
the presence of a large assembly} invited by the Federation.
Those present included a number of Medical Ofﬁcers of Health,
_Members of the City Corporation of Birmingham. Sanitary
Inspectors, Veterinary Surgeons, Meat Inspectors, Superintendents
of Markets, Pig—Breeders and Pork Butchers, Representatives of
Butchers’ and Slaughtermen’s Organisations, of the Jewish Board
of Shechita, etc. The Duchess of Hamilton, Miss Lind—af—Hageby
and Mr. John Dodds were present on behalf of the Animal
Defence Society.

The three representatives cl: your Society wrote a Report
of the Demonstration which was published, and from which
"we quote the following :—

Fifty—two animals were provided for the Demonstration. They
consisted of bullocks, sheep and pigs. No bulls, cows or calves
‘were used. ’

Out of the nine bullocks slaughtered, two were felled by the
pole-axe, one by the Greener Cattle Killer, two by the R.S.P.C.A.

32

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Large Killer, two by the Cash Captive Bolt Pistol and two were
bled to death without preparatory stunning by the Jevmsh method.

In the Programme of Proceedings, published by the National
Federation of Meat Traders, which was handed to us on arrival,
we read the following declaration in favour of the old-fashioned
methods of killing by pole-axe and knife:—

“The contention of the Trade is that existing methods are as
speedy and humane as any that have so far been devised,” thus
again emphasising that the Trade had made up its mind before
conducting its Inquiry.

It is, therefore, of the greatest signiﬁcance to note that out of
two bullocks slaughtered by the pole—axe, one remained standing
after the ﬁrst blow, though the point had penetrated the skull.
The pole-axe was pulled out of the head of the animal and another
blow given before the animal fell insensible on the ﬂoor. That
this could happen at a Public Demonstration, designed to Show
the superiority of the pole—axe, is a fact which should for ever
silence the defenders of this inefﬁcient and inhumane implement.
It must naturally be assumed that the Federation had selected the
best operator obtainable and the most suitable animal for the
operation. The second bullock was successfully felled with one
blow. Five bullocks were slaughtered by mechanically-operated
Humane Killers and every one of these animals was rendered
insensible by the ﬁrst shot. ‘

We were much impressed by the unsuitable and unpractical
manner in which the bullocks were brought to the place of slaughter.
They were hauled through a narrow doorway, then, by various
manipulations, forcibly made to turn right round, slipping in the
process and showing signs of fright and distress. Fright and
slipping were particularly noticeable in the ﬁrst three animals
brought in. The second and the third bullock fell, one having to
be shot lying down after vain attempts to make it rise.

As we have recently seen the quiet and humane manner in which
cattle are led into the killing-halls in the Public Slaughterhouses
of Switzerland, we ﬁnd it impossible to accept the method used
at the Birmingham Demonstration as humane, and we are convinced
' that the fright and nervous excitement caused to some of these
anlmals cannot but have a deleterious effect on the meat.

The demonstration of the Jewish method of killing emphasised
the inhumanity of this method, notwithstanding the fact that care
hadIbeen taken to show the latest improvements in the process of
casting. A mattress was used for the animals to fall upon, and
instead of the crowbar and rope for ﬁxing the head, a man was
employed to hold the head and expose the throat for the cut by
the Shoehet. In the case of the ﬁrst bullock slaughtered by this
method, there was much delay and difﬁculty in getting the animal
to fall in the requisite position on the mattress. When cast, the
bullock slipped and fell only partially on the mattress and had to
be raised to its feet and cast again. Obvious distress was caused
by these preparations and by the shackling of the feet, which were
drawn securely against staples; After the Shoehet had cut the
throathone of the slaughtermen present cleared the wound with
1118 knife so as to ensure freer bleeding. This animal made
conscmus and vigorous movements and struggled for some

33
E

 




 

 

 

" ~ - u.- ~ -- . -. - .7 am. 7.....- .A~w.m- -_... .— ‘ , ._... ——~-—————~-- _ v.

considerable time after the cut. The second bullock slaughtered
by the Jewish method was cast on the mattress with greater
efficiency.

We observed, by stop—watch, struggles and movements on the
part of this animal during seven minutes after the throat had been
cut. The movements during several minutes were decidedly
conscious and purposive, and at times so forcible that the animal
would have risen had it not been securely tied by the legs. These
movements show that, in spite of the severance of important
blood~vessels in the throat, blood reaches the brain through the
vertebrate arteries which are left intact.

It is a disturbing fact—admitted by Jewish authorities—that in
London alone some 1,000 bullocks a week are slaughtered by the
Jewish method.

One item of the programme, intended to demonstrate the
excellency of the old methods of slaughter, was the despatch of
three pigs by means of the hammer. There was a pen in the
middle of the floor immediately in front of us, into which, in the
course of the demonstration of pig—killing, pigs were driven quietly
and without undue force.

The ﬁrst pig selected for the display of the hammer remained
standing screaming after the ﬁrst blow. It endeavoured to escape.
The operator followed it and gave it a second blow. The animal
still remained on its legs, screaming with pain. The third blow
was equally ineffective, the pig still endeavouring to run away
from the slaughterman. It was only the fourth blow that stunned
the animal and put an end to its suffering.

In consequence of this distressing failure the further demonstra—
tion of the use of this instrument on two more pigs was abandoned.
The slaughterman in this case did his best with an unsuitable and
altogether inhumane implement.

Nine pigs were successfully shot with various types of Humane
Killers. In each case the stunning was instantaneous, the pigs
falling to the ﬂoor without uttering a sound.

Great preparations had been made for demonstrating the method
of sticking pigs, in use at the bacon factory owned and controlled
by Messrs. Marsh and Baxter, of which Mr. A. E. Marsh is the
principal partner. As Mr. Marsh, who was present, has constituted
himself one of the principal objectors to the Humane Slaughter
Movement, and marshalled all the arguments against ’Slaughter
Reform in the pamphlet to which we have already referred, this
particular item of the demonstration was of special interest. Mr.
Marsh’s ﬁrm slaughters over 10,000 animals per week, including
6,000 pigs. .

A replica of the much-lauded model plant for killing pigs was
shown in the shape of an elevator, carrying an endless revolving
chain, on to which pigs were hoisted, head downwards, by means
of a noose fastened round one hind leg, which was then attached
to a ring on the chain. From the revolving chain the pigs passed
on to a bar where slaughtermen waited with knives, sticking each
pig as it came their way. The exhibition was wholly objectionable
from the humane point of view. A number of pigs were driven
into a special pen, adjoining the elevator. The noise of the
machine, the screams of their fellows, suffering the pain of being
hoisted by one leg, with a tightening noose, terriﬁed those as yet

34

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

untouched, which tried to escape. In the middle of the operations
the revolving mechanism failed and killing had to be suspended for
a While. Occasionally one hoisted pig got in the way of another,
and a man had to disengage the two bodies, thus adding further
strain to the limb from which the body was suspended. The
shrieks and groans of the hoisted and stuck animals were pitiful;
in the case of some pigs the shrieks continued for twenty-five"
seconds after the throats had been cut. Penning, hoisting and
sticking these animals occupied considerably more time than would.
have been spent by using a Humane Killer. Between the time
of attaching them to the chain and the moment of unconsciousness
there was sometimes a lapse of ﬁfty seconds. It was also evident
that the cut in the throat varied considerably in scope and
effectiveness.

This demonstration on the part of one who seeks to obstruct
reform, on the ground that this method of slaughter is more
“speedy” and humane than that in which the Humane Killer is
used, was a lamentable failure. All who eat bacon should make
sure that their supply does not come from bacon factories employing
such methods. Happily there are several bacon factories which
have adopted humane slaughter.

We would point out that the claim that this demonstration was
conducted with “ scientiﬁc ” precision cannot be maintained. ‘ There
was no attempt to test the action of the heart, respiration, the
corneal reﬂex, etc., in animals killed by the old methods and by
Humane Killers. No record was offered as to the condition of
animals used prior to slaughter, of journeys, fasting, type of feeding,
health, age, etc. The collection of the blood for weighing was
not carried out with meticulous care; the bleeding and draining
of carcases presented wide variations in manner and time allowed.
As the judging of the quality of the meat produced will be based
largely on the quantity of blood and serum left in the carcases
and on the records of measured weights of blood made at the
time of the demonstration, these factors should be borne in mind.
The Animal Defence Society was invited to send a representative
to a Committee of the Trade to examine the carcases, but declined
in a letter from which we quote the following:—

“Whilst thanking the National Federation for the invitation
to send a representative to join the Trade Committee, the Executive
Council of this Society hold that no useful object would be
achleved by such action. They know that the proper use of
mechanically—operated Humane Killers in no way deteriorates the
meat. They regard an inquiry on this point as superﬂuous and
out of date, in view of the long and practical experience gained
in this and other countries.”

Jewish Opposition to Slaughter Reform.—-—The year was
marked by strong opposition from Jews, not only in the House
of Commons to the Bill, but at meetings, in letters and articles
in the Press. Virulent attacks were made on the leading
exponents of the Views of your Society in the Jewish Press,
the Jewish Chronicle writing about the “ humbug ” of humane
slaughter and the futility of “ ﬁnicking care ” in slaughter. On
April 6th, the Jewish Chronicle printed a reply by Miss
Lind—af—Hageby, and another article of abuse and clumsy

35

 




 

 

 

 

ridicule in which utterly untruthful personal allegations were
made. Her reply to this was cut down, and she, therefore,
addressed no further letters to the care of the editorial judgment
of Jewish journalism. The Jewish papers continued unchecked
to pour epithets on the Duchess of Hamilton and Bliss Lind—
af—Hageby, whom they repeatedly referred to as “ kissers of
calves ” (forgetting that the original Bible phrase referred to
those who love gold more than that which is Divine) and as.
“ hysterical.”

The Duchess of Hamilton was engaged in a controversy in
The Times, in May, with Dr. Herz, the Chief Rabbi, and with
the notorious vivisector, Dr. Leonard Hill, who acts as
“ scientific ” defender of methods of slaughter considered
barbarous by humanitarians. The Duchess of Hamilton
asked the Chief Rabbi whether his religious principles would
permit him to confine Jewish slaughter to Jewish slaughter-
houses, to the labelling of all meat killed by their methods,
and to conﬁning the sale thereof to special establishments.
The Chief Rabbi replied (The Times, May 12th), “that he
certainly could not be a party to withholding the privilege
of eating the best and healthiest meat from any of His
NIajesty’s subjects.” The second Blemorandum on the
Jewish method of slaughter, issued by your Society (in May)
to Members of Parliament and the Press, proves, by quotations
from Jewish publications, that the whole system of Jewish
slaughter is largely based on mercenary principles, and that
the retention of the system amounts to an intermingling of
ritual, commercialism, and imposition of rejected Jewish men:
on the Christian population. The Morning Post has rendered
great service in giving publicity to cruelties connected with
Jewish slaughter.

There have been exceptions to the Jewish policy of
obstruction of reform. A few enlightened Jews have openly
expressed their sympathy with your Society’s humanitarian
work.

The General Election. As soon as it became known
that a General Election was imminent plans were made for'
the Society’s election campaign. Besides offering an invaluable
opportunity for ascertaining, by means of question cards, the
opinions on the Slaughter Reform and Anti-Vivisection
questions of all Parliamentary candidates, thereby laying the
foundation for the Society’s future Parliamentary work, a
General Election presents unique facilities for widespread
propaganda work throughout the country. A letter was sent
out to helpers and supporters in every constituency and

36

 

 

 

 




 

 

arrangements were made for the canvassing of Parliamentary
candidates by voters, for the distribution of propaganda leaﬂets-
-outside election meetings, churches, railway stations and other
suitable public places. Groups of workers were called on to
attend election meetings and to ask questions of candidates,
other workers were sent to offer assistance to candidates known
:to be strong supporters of the objects of the Society. A number
of friends volunteered to help in the strenuous work carried
out in the ofﬁces of the Society. Great enthusiasm and
readiness to help was evinced and demands for supplies of
election publications poured in. Upwards of 100,000 leaflets
were distributed during this election campaign.

Reports from different parts of the country showed that
the strength of public opinion on the question of Slaughter
Reform and Anti—Vivisection was making itself effectively felt.
The Society’s election posters were shown in shop windows,
outside public buildings and in the windows of private houses.
Election leaﬂets were 'displayed in a certain number of shops
and restaurants. A number of organisations and groups
displayed the Society’s election posters and distributed leaflets,
among them the Theosophical Society, the Star Shop, the
Star in the East Headquarters, the Health Centre Shop, the
Fellowship Club, the Rally, the Catholic Women’s Suffrage
Society, the Order of the Golden Age and the Women’s
Freedom League.

Specially valuable and effective work was done by Miss
Nora Logan, who, during the two weeks preceding the Election,
drove a car decorated with the Society’s election posters
through the streets of different London constituencies, dis-
tributing leaﬂets along the road and stopping at election
meetings where special opportunities for useful work presented
themselves.

On the Polling Day Miss Logan and 'her car rendered
signal service in the constituency of one of the Society’s strong
supporters by taking voters, living at a distance or old and
inﬁrm, to and from the Polling Station. On the days
immediately preceding the election a number of sandwichmen,
carrying the Society’s election posters, paraded the streets of
important London constituencies.

The number of pledges of support received from candidates
was very satisfactory and the Election results showed that
the Society could count on a strong body of supporters in the
new House.

37

 




 

Obituary : The Passing of Mrs. H. F. Suckling.—
Your Council feel that a brief reference to the death of one
who did so much to further Slaughter Reform is appropriate.
The death of Mrs. Suckling took place on December 12th.
The following note by Miss L. K. Schartau gives an impression
of Mrs. Suckling’s personality: “ It is difficult for anyone
who had the privilege of knowing Mrs. Suckling and of being ‘
in any measure, however small, her fellow-worker, to express
an appreciation of her unique contribution to the cause of
the animals. To seek to captivate the infinite charm and
elusive power of Mrs. Suckling’s personality in words would
be a futile task. Once within the old and beautiful home
where she reigned with such grace and dignity, her guest felt
transported into a world of faéry, where the cruel facts of
life became transmuted, and the impossible became possible.
Many an opponent to one or other of the reforms which Mrs.
Suckling worked to bring about rashly ventured inside her
magic circle, and returned a changed man. Her delicate face
became illuminated by an inner light when she pleaded for
the animals. Her words were tinged with a fire which melted
enmity and transformed indifference. To those who did not
know Mrs. Suckling, it seemed incomprehensible that an old
woman, for long years too much of an invalid to leave her
home, could exercise such a powerful and far-reaching inﬂuence,
and not only bring her own county, Hampshire, into the
vanguard of the humanitarian movement, but stimulate reform
all along the line. To those who knew her it seemed but
natural. Her wonderful letters ﬂew abroad into the outside
world,_inspiring, stimulating, encouraging. Few have known,
as did Mrs. Suckling, the fructifying power of a word of
praise in the right place and at the right moment, and many
a cloud of discouragement was dispersed by a message from
her, or a ﬂickering ﬂame kindled into a warm and blessed ﬁre.
Of all the great work she did on behalf of ‘ our little brethren,’
as she loved to call them, none will bear richer fruit than
her continual efforts to awaken in children a true understanding
of their relationship to the animal world. There remained
within her the child with its undimmed vision and its un~
wavering trust, and in her hand was the key which unlocked
the gates to the world of mystery and delight, where the child
dwells and the grown-up never enters. In the educational
ﬁeld she sowed seeds which will grow and blossom and ripen
in the far future.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

The Animal Defence and

Anti-Vivisection Society.

 

 

REPORT

FOR THE YEAR 1924

A Year of Expansion—Your Council have: pleasure in
presenting a Report of the main features of the work carried
out during a year marked not only by a steady pursuance of the
strenuous work for the enforcement of humane slaughter, but
by the expansion of the Society’s inﬂuence in practically every
direction. The plan, long cherished, of holding in London a
permanent HUMANE EXHIBITION has been realised,
thanks to the devotion and generosity of a member of the
Society. Additional premises have been taken at 35, Old Bond
Street, where now, by models, pictures, appliances and
illustrative objects, practical ways of suppressing cruelty and
substituting kindness to animals are demonstrated. Thus, the
treatment of animals in slaughter, in vivisection, in the fur and
feather trades, in training for performances to amuse the public,
in sport, in domestic confinement, etc., can be brought home to
many who otherwise would not realise how we offend against
mercy in our treatment of sentient fellow creatures.

Birmingham Demonstration Report—Early in January
the Report by the Duchess of Hamilton, Miss Lind-af—Hageby
and Mr. John Dodds, of the Butchers’ Demonstration of
Slaughter in Birmingham, was sent to 150 newspapers, together
with a letter by your Hon. Director, in which she drew atten-
tion to the fact that out of two bullocks slaughtered with the
pole—axe, one had to be hit twice before being felled, and in the
display of the use of the hammer an unfortunate pig had to be
hit four times before it was rendered unconscious, whilst 20
animals operated on by means of the Humane Killer were
rendered unconscious by the ﬁrst shot.

39

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

On January 14th The Times published the following notice
of the Report :—

THE SLAUGHTERING OF ANIMALS.
REPORT ON HUMANE AND OTHER METHODS.

With a view to showing that the methods of slaughtering animals
by the use of the knife, hammer, and pole—axe are superior to
the humane killer, a demonstration, organised by the National
Federation of Meat Traders’ Associations, was held in the
Birmingham abattoir on November 20. The Duchess of Hamilton,
who is president of the Animal Defence and Anti—Vivisection
Society, and Miss Lind-af—Hageby, the hon. director, were present.

They have issued a joint report on the proceedings, from which
we make the following extractsz—Pointing out that 52 animals,
comprising bullocks, sheep and pigs, were provided for the demon—
stration, the report states that of the nine bullocks slaughtered
two were felled by the pole-axe, one by the Greener cattle killer,
two by the R.S.P.C.A. large killer, two by the Cash captive bolt
pistol, and two were bled to death without preparatory stunning
by the Jewish method. Of two bullocks slaughtered by the pole—
axe one remained standing after the ﬁrst blow, though the point
had penetrated the skull. The pole—axe was pulled out of the head
of the animal and another blow given before the animal fell
insensible on the ﬂoor. That this could happen at a public demon-
stration, designed to show the superiority of the pole-axe, is a
fact, says the report, which should for ever silence the defenders
of this inefﬁcient and inhumane implement. It must naturally be
assumed that the Federation had selected the best operator
obtainable and the most suitable animal for the operation. The
second bullock was successfully felled with one blow. Five bullocks
were slaughtered by mechanically-operated humane killers, and
every one of these animals was rendered insensible by the ﬁrst
shot.

The report proceeds to condemn as unsuitable and unpractical
the manner in which the bullocks were brought to the place of
slaughter and adds :——“ The demonstration of the Jewish method
of killing emphasised the inhumanity of this method, notwith—
standing the fact that care had been taken to show the latest
improvements in the process of casting. The Jewish method of
slaughter is primitively barbaric. It is essentially opposed to
depriving the animal of conscious feeling before the knife is
applied. It is a disturbing fact—admitted by Jewish authorities
—that in London alone some 1,000 bullocks a week are slaughtered
by the Jewish method. .

Commenting on the killing of three pigs by means of the hammer,
the report states that four blows were needed before the ﬁrst
pig was stunned. Nine pigs were successfully shot by various types
of humane killers. In each case the stunning was instantaneous.

Of the 12 sheep slaughtered three were stunned by the Greener

pistol and three by the Cash captive bolt instrument. In each
of these animals there was instantaneous loss of consciousness.

A further report on the demonstration, made by Mr. John Dodds,
superintendent of Carlisle public slaughterhouses, states that from
the humanitarian point of view the demonstration must have been
a notable victory, as no mishap or error took place with any animal
operated upon with humane killers. He adds that the demonstration

40

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

showed that thereis room for reform in slaughtering and for the
adoption of a national and standardised method.

The Church Times published a sympathetic article and
commented favourably on the demand for restriction and
amelioration of the present system of Jewish slaughter. Another
articlein sympathy with the Report appeared in the Hospital
and [-Iealth Review. There were articles and notices, in some
cases followed by letters .and correspondence in a number of
newspapers, amongst them the Guardian, the Birmingham Post,
the Yorhshire Post, the Yorhshire Iferalrl, the Western Press,
the Glasgow Iferald, the Western Morning News, the Dover
Express, the Leicester Advertiser, the Burnley News, the Bath
and W/iltshire Chronicle, the Greenoeh Telegraph, the
Yorhshire Weehly Post, ﬂlfzinicipal Engineering, the
Loughhorough IJerald, the Clap/2am Observer, etc., etc. On
January let a letter from the Secretary of the National
Federation of Meat Traders appeared in The Times, the object
of the writer being to detract from the inﬂuence of the Report
issued by the representatives of your Society. The Birmingham
Demonstration Report was sent to all lWembers of Parliament
and issued widely to the public. A large number of expressions
of sympathy and support were received.

Advertisement Campaign. The methods of bringing
facts relating to the need of Slaughter Reform before the public,
by means of large displayed advertisements, was again used,
and proved most effective. On January 12th such an appeal
appeared in the Daily Herald, containing a full statement of
the case for reform, and quoting a case heard at the Guildhall,
at the hearing of which it transpired that a lad of 17, without
much “experience,” had been allowed to slaughter a cow with
a pickaxe; on January 30th a similar large announcement
appeared in The Times; on April 3rd, a Whole-column
advertisement was published in the Morning Post. On the
same day a very large one in The Times; another in connection
with the Society’s public meeting in the Daily News on
April 5th; in the Daily Herald on April 5th; a very large
announcement in the Daily Herald giving list of signatories to a
lVIemorial, urging legislation, presented to the Prime lVIinister
on September 3rd; a whole-page announcement in the
New ‘Leader on September 26th. Numerous smaller
announcements and appeals to the public-to consider the cause
of Slaughter Reform, and the project of building an abattoir,
were inserted in the Press.

Meetings.———On January 15th, the Duchess of Hamilton
lectured at the Lyceum Club on Slaughter Reform. A notice-

45

 

 

 




 

of the meeting appeared in the Morning Post on the following
day. On January 17th, a well-attended meeting of members
and friends of your Society was held at 35, Old Bond Street,
the subject of discussion being Slaughter Reform. The Duchess
of Hamilton was in the Chair. On lWay 25th, a meeting was
held in the Town Hall at Cheltenham under the auspices 'of the
Cheltenham Food Reform and Health Association. The speakers
were the Duchess of Hamilton, Miss Lind-.af-Hageby, Dr.
E W. \Vilkins and Miss Geddes, the speeches dealing mostly i
with the subject of Humane Slaughter. The Chair was taken }
by the RIayor of Cheltenham, who has shown much sympathy ‘
with the Cause of Slaughter Reform. The resolution urging
the Town Council to adopt Clause 9 (B) of the lVIinistry of
Health Bye-Laws was moved from the Chair by the Mayor,
seconded by lWrs. Metcalfe, and carried unanimously. The
success of this meeting was largely due to the initiative and work
for the Cause of one of your Vice-Presidents, Mrs. Cook
(Riabel Collins), the distinguished writer and founder of the
Parliamentary Anti—Vivisection Association, which did such fine
work in influencing Members of Parliament, and who has for
many years devoted much time and energy to the cause of
suffering animals; .and also to Dr. Wilkins and Miss Geddes,
both prominent humanitarians.

 

 

On l\~'Iay 28th, an all—day Conference of Humanitarian
Societies in connection with Animals’ Welfare VVeek, was held
at the Caxton Hall. In the morning Miss Lind—af—Hageby
spoke on Vivisection, and the address was followed by a
discussion. The Chair was taken by Mr. George Arliss. In
this speech she emphasized the need of a new spirit and new
methods in the Anti—Vivisection movement. The following
notice of the meeting appeared in The Times of May 29th :—

 

In connection with Animals’ Welfare Week (May 25 to
May 31) an all—day conference of humanitarian societies was
opened yesterday at Caxton Hall, Westminster, by Mr. George
Arliss, who presided at the morning session.

Mr. Arliss pointed out that his business had taken him a great
deal to the United States, and so any work he and his wife had
done for the cause of anti-vivisection had been done in the States.
Anything we did in England was discussed by the Americans, and
was of tremendous importance to the anti—vivisection movement
'in America.

 

Miss Lind-af—Hageby said there was no doubt that the anti-
vivisection movement was in urgent need of re-birth, and she
deplored the lack of understanding, consistency, and unity between
all humanitarians. She urged that no Anti-Vivisection Bill should

42

 

 

 




 

 

 

be brought before the House until humanitarians had agitated
throughout the whole country, and public opinion had been
educated.

Opening a discussion on “ Sport,” Mr. Isaac Foot, M.P., described
his Bill for the Protection of Animals which he introduced into
the House on March 12.

On May 30th a mass meeting was held at the Queen’s Hall
in connection with Animals’ Welfare Week. The Prime
lVIinister (Mr. Ramsay MacDonald) had been announced
to take the Chair. In his absence the Chair was taken by the
Duchess of Hamilton, President of your Society. The speakers
were Mr. H. Baillie-V’Veaver, Mrs. Annie Besant, Miss
Lind—af-Hageby, Judge Staveley Hill and Miss Anna Maud
Hallam.

On June 2nd the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss
Lind—af-Hageby addressed a largely attended public meeting at
Birmingham on slaughter reform, anti-vivisection, sport and
the general principles of protection of animals. The Chair was
taken by Councillor J. E. Shurmer, and the meeting was also
addressed by Mr. F. VV. Pethick Lawrence, M.P., Mr. Roy
Horniman and Mr. John Dodds.

The meeting was organised ‘by Mrs. R. Blankensee. A
On July 29th the Duchess of Hamilton took the Chair and

Miss Lind-af—Hageby spoke on animal welfare at a Universal
Fellowship Conference organised by the Theosophical Society
at the British Empire Exhibition at VVembley. Miss Lind-af-
Hageby dealt with vivisection, slaughter reform, cruelties of
the fur and feather trade, sport, the keeping of wild animals
in confinement and other aspects of the Animal Protection
Movement. Your Society held a Stall for the distribution and
sale of publications in connection with the meetings held at
VVembley, July 28th and 30th. Miss Warner, Miss Organ
and other workers for the Society were in charge of the stall.
Amongst other social subjects, dealt with at this Conference
were z—Housing Conditions, Penal Reform, Lunacy Reform,

Education and New Thought.

On November 9th Miss Lind—af—Hageby addressed a- meeting
of the North End Brotherhood, Croydon. The meeting was
attended by some 1,500 people, and she took the opportunity of
speaking at some length on slaughter reform, especially with
reference to the fact that Croydon, having adopted the humane
bye-law for the slaughter of animals, subsequently rescinded
it on the advice of members of the meat trade who
are hostile to reform. On November 23rd she addressed a

43

 

 




 

 

men’s Brotherhood meeting at Ilford, which was attended by
some 2,000 men. In the course of this address she dealt with
man’s responsibility towards animals, and some practical details
of how to eliminate cruelty and raise the general standard of
kindness and justice. On December 2nd the Duchess of
Hamilton delivered a lecture on slaughter reform at Bedford.
On December 6th she delivered another lecture on slaughter
reform at Letchworth. On December 9th Miss Lind-af-
Hageby addressed a meeting of the Feminist League, her subject
being, “ The Quality of Mercy is not Strained.” In the
course of this lecture she dealt with the arguments in favour
of and against vivisection, and with the scientiﬁc evidence
against the practice which is now accumulating.

A Stormy Meeting.———On April 7th a crowded public
meeting organised by the Animal Defence Society was held at
the Steinway Hall.

The objects of the meeting were :—

1. To urge the Government to introduce a Bill to make the
use of mechanically—operated humane killers obligatory in
the slaughter of animals for food throughout the country;

2. To present facts and evidence showing the lack of foundation
for statements made that meat and bacon, derived from
humanely slaughtered animals, is inferior in quality or unﬁt
for food;

3. To draw attention to the objects of the model abattoir which
it is proposed to build, and to the urgent need for reform
in the care of animals, and. in the handling of meat from the
point of View of public health.

l‘vlembers of the meat trade had been specially invited to

attend through advertisements in the Press and through notices
sent by post. A large number were present, and there were
frequent hostile interruptions and much noise of dissent. The
Duchess of Hamilton was in the Chair, and the speakers were
Lord Ernest Hamilton, Lieut-Col. H. M. Meyler, M.P., lV‘Iiss
Lind-af—Hageby, Miss Warner, Mr. J. S. Wardlaw Milne,
NLR, Lady Terrington, M.P., Mr. John Dodds and Mr.
T. L. Staples. They were supported by The Earl of Plymouth,
The Rt. Hon. G. Lambert, Sir Alfred and Lady Yarrow, Sir'
Arthur Shirley Benn, M.P., Mrs. Philipson, M.P., The
Marquis of Clydesdale, Sir Cyril Cobb, M.P., lVIr. Isaac Foot,
Ml)” Sir Leslie Scott, M.P., K.C., etc.

In her speech from the Chair the Duchess of Hamilton
referred to the opposition encountered from the meat trade and
to the references to the agitation of the Society made in the
[Meat Trades Journal. They wrote of our appeals for mercy,
for the merest decency in the treatment of the animals, as

44

‘D
1..

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

C

‘ sob—stuff.” They ﬁlled their journal week by week with state—
ments, sOmetlmes beyond the limit of reputable controversy.

“ We shall, therefore,” she said, “show by practical demon— ,

stration that our principles are sound. VVe shall not only enter
the trade, but we shall create a new trade, with new ideals, new
principles and new practice. We shall attach a school for
slaughter—men and butchers to our model abattoir. And the
time will come when young men in the trade will no more
dream of using the old barbarous method in the slaughter of
animals for food than young men now dream of studying how
to drive coaches along our roads or four-wheeler cabs along
our streets. We stand for humanity and progress.”

She read the following letter from Mr. Matthew Brechin,
head of an influential firm of butchers in Scotland :———

As to a statement widely circulated that the gun injures the
meat I have asked in vain for evidence, but no one will or can
produce such evidence. The statements made by some medical
or veterinary experts to the effect that shot animals bleed imper—
fectly and that such meat is detrimental to health is not to be
relied on. My experience in visiting the slaughterhouse several
times weekly and observing the slaughter of animals pole—axed and
shot shows clearly to me——and my View is conﬁrmed by medical
and veterinary men—that there is no perceptible difference, and
the talk of damage to health is absurd.

The promoters of the Birmingham Demonstration have little to
boast about, judging by the issued report. The pole—axe was a
failure, and needless pain was caused. Some men, supposed to
be sane, put aside some pole—axed and shot carcasses for six weeks
and then issued a statement that the former were sound and the
latter were rotten. My reply is that no sane man should keep meat
for six weeks unless in a refrigerator.

The gist of my evidence is simply this, that Brechin Brothers,
Limited (of which I am a Director with over 56 years’ experience
of slaughterhouse work), have, since adopting the use of the gun,
shot between 3,000 and 4,000 cattle, mostly large, representlng in
weight about 2,500,000 lbs., and not one ounce of meat
has been injuriously affected. My .ﬁrm has the largest
retail business in the home meat trade in Scotland and 1n our
seven establishments in some of the leading streets of Glasgow
there can be seen a display of well-coloured and well-dressed meat
that cannot be surpassed in Britain. (Dated 27th of March, 1924.)

Lord Ernest Hamilton said that the movement was not based
on hostility towards butchers. The Souety Wished to work
with butchers and win them over. He referred to thegletters
and pamphlets which all the speakers had received in defence
of the Jewish method of slaughter, and declared that 1f it were
true that Jews could not eat meat if humane slaughter were
enforced in Britain, “their own country 18 open to them.
There should be one law for all citizens.

4S

 

 




 

 

 

 

Mr. John Dodds pointed out that in Carlisle they had
slaughtered 100,000 animals with the Humane Killer and they
had not had a case of lead poisoning yet.

Mr. J. L. Staples showed from his long experience as a
master butcher that the allegations made that meat derived
from animals humanely killed is unwholesome are without any
foundation.

Miss Lind-af—Hageby spoke of her experience in studying
Swiss Abattoirs, and of the humanity and ease with which
animals are handled and brought to the point of slaughter in
Bern. She urged that what Holland and Switzerland have
accomplished should not be impossible for England, and that the
backward state of the system of slaughter in this country was
a reproach both to the humanity and sanitary condition of the
country.

Lady Terrington, M.P., urged all women to buy only
humanely-killed meat. When she proceeded to describe what she
had seen of slaughtering methods, interruptions and jeers made
it almost impossible for the speaker to be heard. Opposition
speeches were made by Mr. Payne and Mr. A. C. Knight. A
number of unrestrained and angry opponents tried‘to speak,
and succeeded in making the meeting very noisy.

In spite of the strong opposition, the following two resolutions
were carried by an overwhelming majority :—

That this meeting notes with satisfaction that 100 Local
Authorities, including the London County Council, have adopted
Clause 9B of the Ministry of Health Bye—laws, making the use
of mechanically—operated humane killers obligatory in the slaughter
of animals for food, and calls on the Government to introduce
a Bill to enforce humane slaughter throughout the country, and to
provide for adequate inspection of slaughter houses.

That this meeting declares that meat derived from humanely—
killed animals has been found by long experience and by practical
tests in this and other countries to be of good quality, and that
the allegations made that such meat is unwholesome or is unﬁt for
food are without foundation. .

Mr. R. S. Ayling, the architect, gave a description of the
Abattoir to be built at Letchworth. Miss Constance Warner
gave some practical advice from the platform to the hostile
section of butchers. There were present some friendly
butchers who spoke, amongst them Mr. VVaghorn and others
from Tonbridge.

Your Council gratefully acknowledge the long and excellent
reports of the meeting which appeared on April 8th in- The
Times, the ﬁlorning Post and the Daily Telegraph.

46

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Reports also appeared in the Daily Herald, the Daily Graphic,
Truth and Yorhshire Herald. i

A photograph of the Duchess of Hamilton, Miss Lind-af-
Hageby and Mr. Stephen Ayling, the architect, appeared in
the Daily Shetch. They were shown holding a model of the
Abattoir to be erected shortly.

There was .an exhibition of Slaughter Reform objects in the
'Hall.

Public Meeting at Ramsgate. On November 7th a very
L successful meeting was held at Ramsgate under the auspices of
‘ your Society. Miss VVarner had spent some time in Ramsgate
' in the work of organisation. The Chair was taken by the
1 Rev. E. L. A. Hertslet, and the speakers were the Duchess of
‘ Hamilton, Miss Lind—af—Hageby and Miss Constance Warner.
i The Mayor of Ramsgate, Dame Janet Stancombe Wills,
‘ who has given warm support to the Slaughter Reform move—
ment, was on the platform. There was considerable opposition
on the part of butchers and representatives of Jewish slaughter,
but in spite of this a strong resolution, urging the Ramsgate
Borough Council to adopt Clause 9B of the lWodel Bye-Laws,
was carried with only a few dissentients. Questions were put
and answered from the platform.

The resolution was proposed by the Mayor and seconded by
Sir Edward Rigg. Votes of thanks were proposed by
Sir Cecil Hertslet and seconded by the Deputy-Mayor.
Amongst those present on the platform were Lady Roxborough,
Lieut.-Col. W. Smith, Captain H. C. Norman, the
Rev. T. Williams, Dr. Tamplin, Alderman A. VV. Larkin, and

lWr. D. R. Leuliette, who had given great help in organising
l the meeting and making it a success.
I The meeting was particularly noisy when lVIiss Warner

showed a series of lantern slides illustrative of the present
conditions in private slaughterhouses. (Cries of “ Taken years
ago,” “ Faked,” “ Be fair,” “ Not a bit like that,” were heard.)
Mr. Emanuel, Secretary and Solicitor to the Board of
Shechita, was present on behalf of the Jews, and at the con-
clusion of the meeting walked up to the platform and engaged
in conversation with lVIiss Lind—af—Hageby. Subsequently this
conversation, in a somewhat garbled form, was reproduced in
the Jewish Chronicle, and called an “ Intervier with
Miss Lind—af-Hageby.” On November let the Jewish
Chronicle published a long account of a meeting of the
Deputies of British Jews held at the Hotel Cecil under the
Presidency of Mr. H. S. Q. Henriques, K.C., at which
Lord Rothschild was present. At this meeting lﬂr. Emanuel

47

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




presented a Report of the Ramsgate meeting, in which the
following remarks are noteworthy :——“After the meeting he
had a conversation with Miss Lind-af—Hageby and asked her
on what she based her suggestion that the Jews, in upholding
their method, were actuated by mercenary motives. She
replied that she had drawn her information from the Jewish
Chronicle. (Laughter.) She asked him whether there were
Members of the Shechita Board who did not eat Kosher meat.
He replied that if that were so, all the more honour to them I
for giving their time and trouble without any remuneration in V
the interests of those who did believe in “ Kashruth.” She urged
that the Jews should have their own abattoir and only kill
enough for their own requirements. He pointed out that that II
was impossible, as there were many small places where a single I
animal was suﬂicient for the needs of the community. She I
asked whether they could not have a central abattoir, and he ’
replied that that would add greatly to the cost.” The I
Chairman thanked the speaker and said it had been well worth l
while to ask him to' go to Ramsgate. A vote of thanks was
then passed to Mr. Emanuel.

That lVliss Lind-af—Hageby’s explanation of the source of
her charge that the Jewish method of slaughter is inﬂuenced by
mercenary motives is justiﬁed, is shown by many articles which I
have appeared in the Jewish Chronicle. On November let . I
that Journal contained the following on “the subject of the
price of Kosher meat :—

It is clear that “there is considerable dissatisfaction in the
community with the charge which those who desire to abide by
the precepts of the Mosaic Law have to pay for meat killed in
accordance therewith. A community of Jews, possessing anything I
of the ﬁnancial acumen constantly attributed to our people, again,
is not likely for ever to remain under the delusion that the t
Shel-him Board can manage, somehow or another, directly or
indirectly, to ﬁlch from the consumers of Kosher meat the huge ;
sum that to-day lies hoarded in its coffers, without being provided
for at some point in the journey which the animals take from their
normal lives to becoming human aliment. It follows that someone
along the road taken by the journey must have paid this great
sum and that, in the ultimate, it must have been provided by the

consumer.” _‘ _
Elsewhere in the same number, reference IS made to the

accumulated surplus of the Shechita Board being the best part
of £100,000, and to the high price of Kosher meat, driving a
number of poor Jews to eat meat killed by Christians. Yet
the very same number of the Jewish Chronicle contained a
letter by er. Emanuel, in which he calls Miss Lind-af—Hageby’s
statement that her source of information was the Jewish
Chronicle, an “ absurd suggestion.”

48

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




The lVIeeting was reported at length in the East Kent Times,
and a report appeared in the llfeat Trades Journal.

. Preaching at Norwich.———On June 22nd the Duchess of
Hamilton preached two sermons at Norwich on the invitation
of the Rev. R. C. Griﬂiths : in the .afternoon, by request of the.
. Rev. Griﬂiths Jenkins, at Prince’s St. Congregational Church,
l
l

when her text was, “ Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of
the least of these My brethren, ye have done it unto Me,” in
the evening at St. Benedicts Parish Church. The Daily
Chronicle of June 23rd published a report of the evening
sermon, from which we quote the following :—

1 Ecclesiastical history was made in this old cathedral city
l to—night when at the close of the evening service at St. Benedicts
Parish Church the Duchess of Hamilton took the place of the
vicar in the pulpit.

“There is no reason why the men in the congregation should
not listen to the address, but if any man here should object to being
\ addressed by a lady in the House of God, he may now leave,”
was the announcement made by the vicar before the address began.
. The Duchess, a well—known lover of animals, and
President of the Animal Defence Society, spoke eloquently on
behalf of the Cause with which her name is closely
associated . . . . When the Duchess ﬁnished her pleading
: address, many women in the congregation were crying quietly.
* Before they left the church the women said together a Girl Guide’s
l prayer ‘for all wistful creatures in captivity that beat against the
‘ bars, for any that are hunted or lost, or deserted, or frightened,

or hungry.’ The Duchess took as her text: “Blessed are the

Merciful for they shall obtain Mercy.” “I come,” she said, “to

plead for those who cannot plead for themselves.” As a woman

and mother she felt compelled to plead for the helpless, whether

‘ human or sub—human. “I believe that through woman, through

' the great motherhood principle of life, fresh hope and love will

i { come again to the world. All women are potential mothers, and

 

 

 

should develop their motherhood. The physical side of their
motherhood is comparatively unimportant, but most important is
the raising of the weak and the immature through the g1v1ng out
of that strong principle of motherhood.” The. wearing of furs,
meat eating, and that prostitution of selence Wthh goes under the
name of vivisection were reviewed by the Duchess 1n the llght of
her reading of man’s duty to animals. .

She especially denounced the “sport ” of huntlng the carted
deer. Pictures of the Duchess preaching at Norwich appeared
in the Daily Mirror, and there were reports in the Daily Mail,
Paris Daily Mail, the Eastern Daily Press,Y0rkshire Telegraph.
Grimsby Daily Telegraph, Calcutta lWercury, and a number
of other newspapers.

Miss Warner’s Lectures. On January 2nd Miss Warner
spoke on slaughter reform at Pevensey, on February 6th at a
large meeting at Rotherﬁeld (this neighbourhood subsequently
adopted humane slaughter), on February 12th at Burstow, on

49

l
l
l
l

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

February 13th at Dorman’s Land, on February let at
Flimwell, on February 29th at Christchurch, and a few days
later at Bournemouth. On March 3rd she went to Worcester
for several meetings. She spoke at Claines, Hadzow (several
butchers adopted Humane Killer), Norton, Ombersley and
Callow End. On March 14th she addressed a large gathering
in Derby at the Federation meeting of Women’s Institutes.
Representatives of some 80 or 90 Villages were present. On
NIarch 18th she gave .a lecture at Staplecross, in Kent, illus-
trated with lantern slides. The village room was packed. On
lVIarch 27th she addressed a large meeting of the West Kent
Federation of Women’s Institutes at Maidstone. There were
400 delegates present. They met in the Crown Court of the
Session House at Maidstone (subsequently adopted Clause 913).
Mrs. Granville Streatfield was in the Chair. At this meeting
there was some opposition from Mrs. Heron Maxwell, who
suggested that voting on the resolution proposed should be
postponed, as she considered there were two sides to the matter.
In spite of this the resolution was carried by a large majority.
On March 28th Miss Warner addressed a meeting at Chidding—
fold, near Godalming, on April lst at Slindon, on April 2nd at
Buckland, near Bletchworth, where great keenness was shown.
On April 8th she addressed a meeting of the Northumberland
Federation at Newcastle. Mrs. Cresswell, Chairman of the
Council, has done excellent work on behalf of Slaughter
Reform. On April 14th lVIiss Warner spoke at Chiddingstone,
and on June 19th to the VVomen’s Institute at Hindheadi
before a large audience. On June 25th she addressed a meeting
at Isleworth, where great determination was shown to get
Clause 93 adopted.

On July 3rd she spoke at Horeham Road before a large
audience. On the 9th she addressed a meeting at Hambledon,
where the Bye-Law has been adopted and a desire expressed to
learn more of the details of Slaughter Reform. On the 10th
she addressed a meeting at Eversley, the Village of Charles
Kingsley. On August 18th she addressed a meeting of the
VVomen’s Institute at Fittleworth, which was attended by a
number of Boy and Girl Scouts, and on September 18th another
at West Drayton.

On October 17th she went to VVestmorland for three weeks,
making many converts to the Cause. On November 18th Miss
VVarner addressed a meeting of the Women’s Citizen’s Asso—
ciation at Dumfries. At this meeting some of the Society’s
slaughterhouse models of animals were exhibited. On November
20th she addressed a meeting at WOrcester, on the let one at

50

 

 

 

 

 




Cardiff, organised by the Vegetarian Society, on the 24th she
spoke at Gosforth, about three or four miles from Seascale.
This was a Village meeting organised by the Rev. A. Sturkey,
Vicar. On the 26th she spoke at Kirkby Stephen, and on the
followmg day at Pooley Bridge. In December Miss VVarner
addressed meetings at Worth, Chichester, Crowborough and
Hemel Hempstead (subsequently passed Bye-Law 9B). The
meeting at Hemel Hempstead was held at the house of Mrs.
Wood, of Great Gaddesden.

The record of Miss Warner’s work for the Society shows
steady achievement and work in the cause of animals carried
out with unstinted devotion and great ability. She never spares
herself. Thus, in one week in November she travelled 1,400
miles in ten days, spoke at six meetings, journeyed from
Tonbridge to Dumfries, Dumfries to Worcester and Malvern,
lVIalvern to Cardiff, Cardiff to Arnside, Westmorland, Kendal,
Kirkby Stephen, Pooley Bridge to London, and back to Ton—
bridge. The actual speaking is but a small part of her work.
She organises meetings, visits butchers, shows lantern slides.
corresponds with people interested in the Cause, pays visits of
inspection to slaughterhouses and bacon factories, reprimands
the thoughtless and takes stern measures against the cruel.

In one of her reports she describes the public slaughterhouse
in one of the Northern towns as follows :—- .

It is right in the middle of the town, dwelling houses looking
over it, and amongst them the school. I really think it is the
most disgraceful thing I have ever seen. The killing-place forms
I three sides of a square and in the centre is a long shed with a
tent roof. Doors are about the height of an ordinary wicket
gate, and in these places cattle were standing waiting to be
slaughtered. They watched, as they were opposite, their brothers
being killed. There was a good deal of lowmg, which showed they
were uncomfortable. . . . The carcases, when dressed, were
hung up in the place where slaughtering was gomg on. There
was no division between the killing and the hanging place. I
watched a beast being led out to be killed. It was quite a gentle
thing. The unfortunate beast ﬁrst of all turned round and put
its head amongst the hot carcases of its brothers. It did not offer
resistance. It was shoved about; it took quite ﬁve minutes to get
it into place before it was shot. The sheep, _of course, were all
stuck amongst the carcases. The calves were Just hung up by the
hind leg and stuck. In the evening the head of the butchers’
associatidn came to our meeting and was very offensive. In the
morning I had seen one of the butchers of the_town who told
me that one of the strongest men he ever knew trled to .klll a bull
.with a pole-axe and had to hit it ten times, the gist of his remarks
being how ﬁne was the strength of the bull pitted against the
strength of the man who could not kill it easily. He never thought
of the suffering of the bull. . ‘

On October 23rd MISS Warner went to Belfast, bringing

with her the Society’s exhibition of a typical slaughterhouse.
51

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This was shown during three days in the Ulster Hall, the
stall being thronged with visitors, amongst them City
Councillors.

On September 18th she went to Leeds to work for Slaughter
Reform and help to arouse feeling against the proposed Rodeo
performances in that city.

Worcester Show.———On May 30th she went to Worcester
to prepare the Society’s Stall at the Three Counties Show. The
stall was 30 feet by 16, and erected in an excellent position.
Unfortunately a violent thunderstorm with torrential rain
broke out, causing the Severn to rise and overﬂow the Show
area, the flood eventually rising 22 feet above the river bank.
The Society’s exhibits were rescued by Miss VVarner with con-
siderable difficulty.

Further Meetings.—On May 12th Miss Organ addressed
a meeting at Stoke—by-Nayland, Suffolk, on humane slaughter.
Some 50 women were present, the meeting being organised by
the VVomen’s Institute. The Chair was taken by the President,
Mrs. Simpson, and a resolution asking the local Council to
adopt Clause 93 of the Ministry of Health Bye-Laws was
adopted and sent to the Clerk to the Council. On May 13th
Miss Organ addressed a meeting at Polstead, Suffolk, also under
the auspices of the Women’s Institute. A similar resolution
was carried and forwarded to the local Council. The meeting
was well attended, and great enthusiasm for the Cause was
shown.

On October 6th Mr. Staples, master butcher, of Lyme Regis,
went, at the request of your Council, to speak on humane
slaughtering at a meeting of the Urban District Council at
Irthlingborough. Your Society had received an official invita-
tion from the Council, strongly backed by the local Labour
Party, to send a representative, as the question of adopting
the model Bye—Laws was to be discussed. There were three
butchers on the Council, and in consequence of opposition Mr.
Payne, Secretary of the National Federation of Meat Traders,
had also been invited to be present. Mr. Payne spoke in
opposition to the adoption of humane slaughter, and brought
forward the usual arguments with regard to dangers to
slaughtermen, danger of butcher’s children being injured,
ﬁnancial loss, etc. Mr. Staples dealt With Mr. Payne’s argu~
ments point by point, giving facts and evidence taken from his
long practical experience. He demonstrated your Society’s
Humane Killer. A number of questions were asked, and great
interest was evinced.

52

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Adoption of Humane Slaughter during 1924. The
following is a list of towns and villages which adopted Clause
913 of the Ministry of Health Bye—Laws :————-

Acton.

Carshalton.

{Washington .

South Ir/I/"est'n/Lorland, which includes :—-—Arnside, Barbon,
Bretham, Burton, Casterton, Crosthwaite & Lyth, Helsington,
Heversham, Holme, Hugill, Hutton Roof, Langdales, Levens,
Lupton, Milnthorpe, Natland, Nether Staveley, Old Hutton &
Holmescales, Over Staveley, Preston Patrick, Preston Richard,
Rydal & Loughrigg, Skelsmergh, Stainton, Strickland Ketel,
Strickland Roger, Troutbeck, Underbarrow & Bradleyﬁeld,
Undermillbeck, Witherslack.

Southend—on—Sea.

Biddulph (Staﬂs). _

Hendon, which includes:——Edgware, Great Stanmore. Little
Stanmore, Pinner.

 

S t. Austell (Cornwall). which includes :—Grampound, Meyagissey,
Roche, St. Austell Rural, St. Blazey, St. Dennis, St. Ewe, St. Goran,»
St. Mewan, St. Stephen in Brannell, Tywardreath.

Shifnal, which includes: Albrighton, Beckbury, Donington,
Sheriff Hales, Shifnal, Stockton, Sutton Maddock, Tong.

Tadcaster, which includesz—Aberford, Allerton Bywater,
Appleton Roebuck, Church Fenton, Great & Little Preston, Kippax,
Ledston, Lotherton—cum—Aberford, Ulleskelf, Mickleﬁeld, Parlington.
& Sturton Grange, Saxton with Scarthingwell, Sherburn-in-Elmet,
South Milford, Sutton with Hazlewood, Swillington, Tadcaster'
East, Tadcaster West.

Cam bridge.

Leyton.

Pershore, which includes:——Birlingham, Bishampton, Charlton,
Cropthorne, Defford, Eckington, Elmley Castle, Fladbury,
Whittington, Hill & Moor Norton, Peopleton, Pershore, Wyre
Piddle, Pershore St. Andrew, Pinyin, Stoulton, Upton Snodsbury.

Bebington and Bromborough. .

Battle, which includes z—Ashburnham, Brightling, Catsﬁeld,
Crowhurst, Dallington, Ewhurst, Hollington Rural, Montﬁeld,
Sedlescombe, Westﬁeld, Whatlington.

Cambome.

Winchester, which includes :—Chilcomb Without, Compton,
Crawley, Easton, East Stratton, Fair Oak, Kings Worthy, Mlchel-
(lever, Osslebury, Sparsholt, Twyford, \Norston.

Lymington, which includes z—Boldre, Brockenhurst, Hordle,
Milford-on—Sea, Milton, Pennington, Sway.

Oundle, which includes: Elton, Great Gidding.

Burgess Hill.

Royston. '

Maidstone, which includes 1—B-earsted, Boughton Monchelsea,
East Barming, East Farleigh, Hunton, Linton, Loose, Marden,
Nettlestead, Otharn, Staplehurst, Teston, West Farleigh, Yaldmg.

53

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

*9

7 -7 A "4.3., - _,_ :‘__"“~a:§n_‘_m.=gv'_;_.;__u~'—3a_;_ ._ 14%,, , . ,. 5 '; , _ - , , __ -a; *V._‘_,)_NU__'_T_' ;,;
Eyww -r,.~:~'-=__._-:r. .2": .-... ,_ , r.._. : ‘A 4~~-- ,»,,. 7,; ~,, , , a“ . .7 ... w... a. . -. i..,“.-.......,,_ __._

Saltash (Cornwall).
Laughton.

Cockermouth, which includesz—Above Derwent, Bassenthwaite,
Blindcrake, Borrowdale, Bottel & Threapland, Brigham, Boughton,
Broughton Moor, Castlerigg St. John’s & Wythburn, Crosscanby,
Dean, Dearham, Dovenby, Embleton, Flimby, Gilcrux, Great Clifton,
Little Clifton, Lorton, Loweswater, Oughterside & Allerby,
Papcastle, Plumbland, Seaton, Underskiddaw.

C hie/Lester.
I l ford.
Royton.

C lzatlzam.

Stokesley, which includes z—Bilsdale Midcable, Broughton, Great
z?yton, lngleby Greenhow, Low Worsall, Stokesley, Whorlton,
arm.

New/lawn, .which includesz—Bishopstone, Denton, Falmer,
Rottingdean, South Heighton.

Articles in the Press.—Amongst articles which have
appeared in the Press, in some places followed by correspondence,
your Council may mention an article in the Farming News on
January 2nd on the humane slaughter work of your Society
and its recommendations to the Government.

In April NIL John Dodds had an article in dnimal Ailments;
on lVIarch 28th the Daily Express published an article by the
Duchess of Hamilton on giving up meat and on the advantages
of a vegetarian diet; in June the English Review published an
article by 311'. John Dodds, in the course of which he stated :—
“ Only recently, in the Glasgow Abattoir, I myself saw a poor
animal receive a pole-axe puncture near the eye, after which
it was thrashed with a ﬂat axe in order to get it back into
position for another blow. At Belfast and other places I have
examined skulls with many punctures, and also witnessed more
suffering than my readers could bear to hear described.” On
December 215’: the People published an article on “ How Meat
is Poisoned,” by the Duchess of Hamilton, referring to the bad
effect on the meat of the pain suffered by the animal. This
article led to correspondence and to a reply by a Meat Inspector.

On December 23rd the Daily Express published another
article by the Duchess of Hamilton. In November, the
Scottish Butclzers’ Journal, under the heading, “The Trade
View Point,” supported the movement for humane slaughter.
“ Now that the people’s representatives have been convinced of
the desirability of improved and more humane methods of
slaughtering, the antiquated system now in vogue in many parts
of Scotland will soon be dispensed with and the pole-axe con-
signed to the scaffold.” '

s4

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

The Labour Government and Slaughter Reform.—
With the fall of the Conservative Government and the advent
of the Labour Party to power in January, your Council took
steps to induce Members of the Government to use their
inﬂuence on behalf of the introduction of a Government
measure to make the use of the Humane Killer compulsory
throughout the country. A very large number of Members of
the Labour Party had previously pledged themselves, in letters,
filed at the oﬂices of the Society, to support reform. This
was the case with Mr. Ramsay MacDonald, Mr. VVheatley,
Mr. Ammon, Mr. Spoor, Mr. Robertson, Mr. Young, and
many others. The Duchess of Hamilton wrote to
Mr. Ramsay MacDonald, recalling his sympathy with the
Slaughter Reform Movement, and expressing the earnest
desire that the Government should introduce a Humane
Slaughter Bill. Miss Lind—af—Hageby wrote to Mr. VVheatley,
Minister of Health, asking him to receive a Deputation from
the Animal Defence Society. Personal letters, with the
same object, were written to leading hiembers of the Labour
Party and to Members of the Government. The Prime
Minister’s reply was sympathetic. Mr. Wheatley answered,
suggesting that he would later on receive Miss Lind-af-Hageby
and a Deputation from the Animal Defence Society. In the
answers received, many urged, in spite of previously expressed
support, other business as having priority of importance. The
action of the Labour Party was disappointing, and there is
no doubt that the hostile attitude towards Slaughter Reform
on the part of some Trades Unions had a great deal to do with
the ofﬁcial attitude. In September, Mr. Jeffrey Williams
Went to Hull, at the request of your Society, to help to combat
the hostile inﬂuences against Slaughter Reform which were
at work in the Trades Union Congress. He spoke to a
number of delegates and put on record the sympathy of several
Trades Unions, amongst them the Unions of Post Office

Workers, Miners and Textile Workers.

In spite of this a resolution hostile to Slaughter Reform
was passed at the instigation of the Journeymen Butchers’
Federation. In reference to this resolution a letter from
Miss Lind—af—Hageby appeared in the Daily Herald of
September 13th, in which she stated :—

“The resolution dealing with Mechanical Instruments (Humane
Killers) reported to have been carried by the Trades Union Con-
gress, could only have been passed under complete misapprehension
as to its purport. For I see that the resolution submitted by the
Journeymen Butchers’ Federation was put in such misleading form
that the supporters of the movement to secure legislation by which

55

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the use of the Mechanical Humane Killer will be obligatory in the
slaughter of animals for food, may well have supported it, believing
it to be in favour of greater humanity in the killing of animals.
. . . Considering the warm and extensive support of the Humane
Slaughter movement by Members of the Labour Party, I cannot
but think that this reactionary and mischievous resolution against
the use of Humane Killers has been passed through misunder-
standing.”

lt transpired that there was misunderstanding and general
inaction on the part of those who were supposed to be in favour

of Slaughter Reform. Thus the resolution was carried.

Deputation to the Minister of Health—On May 20th
Mr. VVheatley, Minister of Health, received deputations from
the Animal Defence Society and the R.S.P.C.A. Your Society
was represented by the Duchess of Hamilton, lVIiss Lind-af-
Hageby, Mr. John Dodds and Mr. J. Thorning, Inspector of
the Wholesale Meat lVIarket, Plymouth. The R.S.P.C.A. was
represented by Sir George Greenwood, Mr. Paddison, Captain
Fairholme, Mr. Toomer, Professor Linton, and others. The
representatives of your Society submitted to the Minister the
case for introducing legislation by which the use of the Humane
Killer would be made obligatory throughout the country, and
urged that public opinion was ripe for such a measure. They
brought facts and evidence to show that the use of the Humane
Killer does not deteriorate the meat, and that there is no real
danger in the use of mechanical instruments. Sir George
Greenwood, speaking on behalf of the R.S.P.C.A., said that
' that Society did not ask for legislation, but for the maintenance
of the old system of recommendation to Local Authorities to
adopt Clause 93, with some improvements and modiﬁcations.

Correspondence between Mr. Paddison, Captain Fairholme
and Miss Lind-af—Hageby had previously emphasised the
difference in attitude and policy between the two Societies.
On lVIay 16th Captain Fairholme had written to Miss Lind-af-
Hageby in reference to the forthcoming deputation as
follows:—-—. . . “The line of action to be taken by our
deputation is to ask the lVIinister to omit Clause 9A of the
. Model Bye-Laws, .and to urge upon the Minister to recommend
the adoption of Clause 93 to all Local Authorities. VVe are
also asking him to make various other recommendations as to
the existing Bye—Laws.”

The Duchess of Hamilton and lVIiss Lind-af—Hageby hold
that there can be no doubt that the opposition of the meat trade
to reform has been strengthened by the weak attitude of the
R.S.P.C.A. in this matter, and that the failure of that Society

'1
a6

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

to urge a legislative measure misled the Government with regard

to the strength and extension of public opinion in favour" of
immediate legislation.

Stall alt Smithﬁeld Cattle Show.——Your Society again held
a stall at the'Smithﬁeld Show in December. The principal
«object exhibited was a humane pig-holder, imported from
Gothenburg, where similar holders are in constant use. By
means of this holder pigs can be steadied for shooting without
causing distress or inflicting pain. There was also exhibited
in the Society’s stall at Smithfield a model of a pig killed by
sticking and hung up by one hind leg by a chain, with the
[object of showing the old cruel methods and causing com-
parison to be made with the new and humane methods of
stunning before sticking. A piece of bacon derived from a
humanely-killed pig was on View with the object of showing
that such bacon is as good, if not better, than that derived
from animals slaughtered by the old method. Mr: Louis
Staples, of Lyme Regis, was present throughout the show to
demonstrate the use of the pig—holder and the humane killer.
Crowds of those interested in the meat trade—butchers,
slaughtermen, farmers and pig breeders Visited the stall, and
lVIr. Staples was kept busy demonstrating the pig-holder during
many hours every day. His experience as a practical butcher
was particularly valuable. Large quantities of the Society’s
publications on every aspect of Slaughter Reform were taken
away by interested inquirers. Many orders were taken for
humane killers. Other workers at the stall were Miss Organ,
who also demonstrated the pig—holder and superintended the
work in general, Miss Logan, Miss St. John Partridge, Miss
Helen Turner, lVIiss Brathwaite, Mr. Alexander and Mr.
Ernest Enegren. The Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind—
:af-Hageby Visited the stall several times .and discussed points
with visitors.

On December 16th an important letter by the Duchess of
Hamilton on humane slaughter, with special reference to the
Smithﬁeld Cattle Show, appeared in The Times:—

HUMANE SLAUGHTER.
A LEAD FROM THE CONTINENT.

To the Editor of The Times.

Sir,——This has been the week of the Smithﬁeld Fat Cattle Show,
that great ante-chamber of death; for, as one surveyed the animals
exhibited—some so fat they could scarcely breathe—one knew
that inevitably the next step would be the slaughter house.

Mercifully the London County Council (after the most careful
inquiry into its working in other places) has passed Clause 9B of

57

 




 

 

 

 

the Ministry of Health by—laws, so that animals bought by butchers
within the London area must by law be stunned as the ﬁrst act of
slaughter. But no such kindly fate awaits those bought by buyers
from districts Where there is no such by—law. In such cases, where
the operator is not skilled, there may be many blows with the
pole—axe (sometimes the eye is struck), or, in the case of pigs,
they may be hauled up alive and fully conscious by one hind leg,
stuck and bled to death. If the pig is heavy its leg may break in
the process. Surely it is time for the country to revolt against
this callous massacre of the innocents, synchronising with the
festival of the Blessed Christ, who passed His ﬁrst infant days
among the gentle oxen and sheep. Surely, so long as we eat
meat, the very least that is decent for us to do is to see that kindly
treatment precedes death, and that the act itself shall be swift and
painless, unconsciousness preceding the use of the knife. Such, for
many years, has been the custom" in Sweden; it is enforced by
law in Switzerland and Holland. Is it not time we ceased to lag
behind these other countries? We, who make much of one isolated
case of cruelty, yet are content to allow old-fashioned, primitive.
and barbarous methods of slaughter to pertain in our slaughter—
houses, and thousands of animals have to suffer daily in consequence.

May we hope that one of the ﬁrst acts of the new Parliament
may be to remove this standing disgrace to the name of England
by passing a Bill enforcing the use of the mechanical humane
killer throughout the country?

I remain, yours faithfully,
NINA HAMILTON.
19, St. James’s Square, S.W.1, Dec. 13.

This letter, or parts of it, was reproduced in a number of
newspapers, such as the Inquirer, the Glasgow Evening Times,
the Glasgow Daily Record. The Field, which is notorious
for its unsympathetic attitude towards the Animal Protection
movement, published a notice on December 25th, in which
the expression used by the Duchess of Hamilton, “ the great
ante—chamber of death,” was referred to as a “ gruesome phrase,”
and the public were told that it is well to recognise that “a
lot of nonsense has been spoken and written about the cruelty
involved in the ordinary method .of killing cattle, sheep and
pigs, as practised in this country. The skilled use of the pole-
axe and the knife is as humane .a method of doing a disagreeable
business as any yet discovered.”

The Field hereby demonstrated that it is utterly out of
touch with public opinion in this matter.

Stall at Cruft’s Dog Show. On February 13th and 14th
your Society again held a stall at Cruft’s Dog Show. The
model of the typical old-fashioned slaughterhouse as well as
the farmyard were exhibited. Crowds visited the stall, visitors
sometimes standing ten deep, and the greatest interest was

 

58

 

 




 

 

evinced. Over 2,000 publications were given away, and many
inquiries as to the Society’s Slaughter Rte-form Campaign were
made. Miss Constance Warner was in charge of the stall.
She was assisted by Miss Schartau, Miss Organ, Mrs. Orrett,
lVIr. Denis Grinling, and Miss St. John Partridge. Lectures
were booked at the Show, and orders for humane killers taken.

The Model Abattoir at Letchworth. On December 13th,
the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind-.af-Hageby issued an
appeal for a Special Fund for building a Mod-e1 Abattoir to
demonstrate humane slaughter and the hygienic treatment of
meat. The appeal was illustrated by a picture from the drawing
of the architect, Mr. R. S. Ayling. In this appeal the writers
stated: “We believe that the Model Abattoir at Letchworth
will be of the utmost value to the cause of Slaughter
Reform, and hasten the day when every town in Great Britain
has its humanely-conducted public Abattoir, and the Private
Slaughterhouse is abolished. l‘dr. John Dodds, well known
as a practical exponent of humane slaughter, who for over
25 years has been Superintendent of the Carlisle Municipal
Abattoir, will be Superintendent of the Model Abattoir at
Letchworth. When the Abattoir is completed we want to
invite butchers, veterinary surgeons, sanitary inspectors, town
councillors, members of the medical profession, Members of
Parliament, and the general public, to come and see what
has been done and what can be done.”

 

The erection of the building and requisite machinery will
cost £30,000. The Duchess of Hamilton headed the list of
subscribers with a donation of £1,000, and Mrs. Nliller,
Chairman of the Society, gave £500. Another generous
donation of £500 was given by Mr. W. Burrell. A list of

further donations received will be published in the Report for
1925.

VVith regard to the practical working of the scheme the
following statement was made :—

The Abattoir will be the property of the Animal Defence Society
administered by specially appointed Trustees. The trade in
humanely—killed meat, derived from animals slaughtered there, will
be carried on by the HUMANE SLAUGHTER AND MODEL
ABATTOIR COMPANY, which we are about to form on principles
and under guarantees which will exclude any possibility of a lapse
into inhumane and inefﬁcient methods. The Company, which will
undertake the slaughter of some 20,000 animals per annum, will
be responsible for the maintenance and the upkeep of the Abattoir
and will pay annual rent for its use, such rent to be devoted by
the Animal Defence Society to the furtherance of the cause of

59

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

justice to animals. We quote the following from the Prospectus
about to be issued :—-—

“ The Company will show that humanely—killed and hygienically-
prepared meat is not only as good as other meat, but distinctly
and deﬁnitely of a superior quality. Shops will be opened in the
West End of London for the sale of the products of the Abattoir,
in which practical training in humane slaughter and in the modern
handling and judging of meat will be given to those wishing to
avail themselves of the instruction offered.

“The Abattoir will include a bacon factory in which humane
pig-holders will be used, and every pig will be shot with a
mechanical killer. The pork and bacon produced will be of the
best quality obtainable and will be supplied to the public as
practical evidence of the groundlessness of the allegations made
that the humane killer cannot be used on pigs. The opposition
to the humane killer is based on ignorance and the false belief
that its use causes splashed and unpalatable bacon.”

That it is necessary to demonstrate to the public that a
Model Abattoir should, above all, be a place of humane
slaughter, and not merely be a matter of fine buildings and
superior machinery, was shown by a lecture given under the
auspices of the “ Model Abattoir Society” on November 24th,
when Dr. Chalmers Mitchell, Secretary of the Zoological
Society of London, made the astonishing declaration that he had
“ come to the conclusion that there was little or nothing to
choose between the rifle and the humane killer, the pole-axe
or the knife, skilfully used under proper conditions, as the
instruments of actual death.” In his opinion and experience
"‘ animals had no presentiment of death, as even the fresh blood
and warm offal of their fellows conveyed no message of fear
to their consciousness.” '

Your President and Hon. Director have visited numerous
slaughterhouses in Britain and on the Continent, and
specially studied the effect on animals of being slaughtered
in sight of each other, and the difference in slaughter with the
humane killer and the pole—axe and knife. They can
emphatically deny the truth of the statements made by Dr.
Chalmers hiitchell.

General Election Work. A great campaign, under the
direction of Miss L. K. Schartau, was undertaken at the time
of the General Election in November. Every candidate was
interrogated on the subjects of Slaughter Reform and Anti-
Vivisection. On Slaughter Reform candidates were asked if
they would support a legislative measure making the use of
mechanically-operated humane killers compulsory throughout
the country, and Whether they were in favour of the Somety’s

 

60

 




 

movement for the institution of public abattoirs. On Anti—
ViVlsection candidates were asked the following three-
questions :—

Are you in favour of suppressing grants of public money for
experiments on liv1ng animals?

. Will you. support the suppression of Vivisectional demonstrations.
in illustration of lectures to classes of students?

Will you support a Bill for the exemption of the higher animals
from vivrsectional experiments?

The questions on Vivisection were issued in conjunction with.
the Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisection, with
which your Society is aﬂiliated. In addition to cards sent out
from the ofﬁce, members of the Society asked questions of their
respective candidates and obtained definite replies. There were
412 replies from candidates. The present House of Commons
includes 282 pledged supporters of Slaughter Reform legislation,
the number of new supporters (not previously in the House)
being 69. There were 123 replies to the Anti-Vivisection
questions; of these the number of supporters of Anti-Vivisection
elected were 42. Amongst members and friends of the Society
who interrogated candidates, distributed leaﬂets and did special
work on behalf of suffering animals may be mentioned :—

Mrs. Weatherby, Mrs. Pierce, Miss Claire Monk, Miss Beatrice
Mott, Mr. David \Nilson, Inspector Beesley, Mrs. Thomas Hardy,
Mr. I. Hughes, the Misses Allport, Mr. Broadhurst, Group of
Theosophical Order of Service, Mrs. Balfour, Miss Cox, Mrs.
Jenkins, Mrs. Page, Miss Owen, Mrs. Pugh, Miss Constance Andrews,
Miss Ada Wallis, Mrs. Robinson Guppy, Miss Brathwaite, Mrs-
Ryves, Major J. B. Paget, Mrs. Woolcombe, Miss Beer, Mrs.
Hutchins, Mrs. B. E. Rose, Miss Sylvia Dunn, Miss O. C. Griffith,
Mr. Percy Hurst, the Misses Garrard, Miss Partridge, Miss Mabel
Owen, Mrs. Cook, Miss Grifﬁth, Mr. Fred French, Mr. James:
Gilchrist, Mr. Croxon, Mrs. E. Thomas, Mrs. Michael Joseph,
Mrs. Osborne Leonard, Mrs. M. A. Brough, Mr. .Fred French,
Mr. Jeffrey Williams, Miss C. Dubois, Mr. Hilary George,
Mrs. Goodacre, Mrs. Rolleston, Miss Gantz, Miss Ballard, Mrs.
Rackley, Miss Rachael Pierce, Mrs. King, Miss Walthall, Mr.
Walter Hart. Mr. Thomas Watson, Miss Evelyn Faulkner, Miss
Howarth. Miss Joyce, Miss Donohue, Miss B. Kearne, Mrs. J.
Black, Miss King, Mrs. English, Mrs. Baillie .Weaver, Mrs. Blum,
the Misses Chadwick, Mrs. Cook (Mabel Collins).

Special work was done in the following London district
Divisions z—Chelsea, Streatham, Croydon, Kensington, N., Holborn,
Paddington, Hampstead, Peckham Division of Camberwellu St.
Marylebone, South Kensington, Stoke Newmgton, three D1v151ons
of Stepney, Finchley, Putney Div1sron of Wandsworth, Islington,
St. Pancras, Norwood, Hammersmith, Ealing, Westmmster, City,
Fulham.

61

 




 

 

Appeals to the public to work for Slaughter Reform were
inserted in some 20 newspapers.

Protests Against Rodeo Performances.—On June the
16th the Duchess of Hamilton, Miss Lind-af—Hageby, Miss
Schartau, Miss Delius and Miss Logan went to witness the
Rodeo performance at Wembley on behalf of your Society.
They witnessed such obvious cruelty that on June the 17th
the following letter of protest was sent to the Press :—

Sir,——We attended the Rodeo on Monday night. We saw the
steer—wrestling and consider the practice wholly objectionable in
its inﬂiction of pain and distress on animals, whilst the only
justiﬁcation offered is the attempt to amuse the public. Two steers
had their horns broken and clearly suffered pain. Nobody with
a spark of humane feeling could enjoy the prolonged efforts of a
man to twist the neck and throw another animal, which pluckily
resisted his manipulations. It was certainly not an exhibition ﬁt
for the amusement of the public, and if such be allowed, our
attempts to teach young people pity for animals will be severely
handicapped. The public should know that a steer is only brought
down by a series of painful manipulations to the head and neck,
,which, if they were carried out in the public highway and in the
course of ordinary handling of cattle in this country, would be
generally condemned as acts of cruelty.

Yours faithfully,
(Signed) NINA HAMILTON AND BRANDON, President,
L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY, Hon. General Secretary.
17th June, 1924. The Animal Defence Society,
35, Old Bond Street,
London, W.1.

This letter was not published, as the matter was sub judice
owing to proceedings having been opened against the organiser.

Owing to an unfortunate misunderstanding, several news-
papers confused Mary Dowager Duchess of Hamilton, who
had expressed approval of the Rodeo, with the Duchess of
Hamilton, President of the Animal Defence Society. The Star
published an article virtually charging the Duchess of Hamilton
with hypocrisy and inconsistency. Miss Lind—af—Hageby took
prompt steps to have the mistake corrected by communicating
with the Press Association and with the editors of newspapers.
The correction was broadcasted, and those papers which had
given publicity to the mistake issued corrections. In addition,
the following statement was issued to members and friends
of your Society :—

It should be made known that the newspapers have made a

mistake in stating that the President of the Animal Defence
Society, the Duchess of Hamilton, was present at the Rodeo

62

 




 

steer-roping contests in the morning of June 18th, and approves of
them. The Duchess entirely condemns the treatment of animals
involved, and on June 17th was signatory to a letter to the Press
denouncing the pain inﬂicted on animals during the steer-wrestling
which she did witness in the evening of June 16th. During this
performance two steers were injured, and had horns broken. We
both attended the Rodeo performance on June 16th solely with the
object of seeing whether the contests involved cruelty to animals,
and our joint letter of protest against the continuation of these
contests would have appeared in certain newspapers if the matter
were not sub judice owing to summonses having been granted
against the conveners of the Rodeo.

[The Dowager Duchess of Hamilton, Mary Louise Elizabeth,
'widow of the 12th Duke of Hamilton, and married in 1897 to
Mr. R. Carnaby Forster, was present at the steer—roping contests
on June 18th. According to newspaper statements, Mary Duchess
of Hamilton declared that there was no “unnecessary cruelty,”
and that she had “a wonderful time, which she would not have
missed for worlds.”]

L. LIND-AF—HAGEBY.

In spite of the corrections issued there were threats of
resignation from membership of the Society, and a number of
“ protests” made at the offices of the Society.

Your Society has taken an active part in the agitation against
the continuance and extension of Rodeo performances in this
country by the exhibition. of posters and the publication of
leaﬂets. Leading members of the Society attended Rodeo per-
formances at the Coliseum, where cruel practices were again
witnessed. One evening lVliss Claire lVIonk stood up at the
Coliseum and made a spirited protest, which caused a certain
amount of sensation .and brought her expressions of sympathy
from many members of those present.

The Old Horse Trafﬁc—Your Society has continued its
agitation against the cruelty and disgrace of England’s traffic
in her worn-out old horses. Though there are doubtless
improvements at certain ports in the inspection in consequence of
the agitation carried on for years by several societies, there is
still very much to be done. The fate of these poor horses is
nearly always a deplorable one, whether they are slaughtered
by knife or hammer amidst carcases of other animals or utilised
for further work. The Minister of Agriculture, the Right Hon.
Noel Buxton, who has shown great interest and sympathy with
the movement to suppress cruelty in the traﬁ‘ic in old horses,
requested your Society to prepare a statement with regard to

63

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

this traffic and suggestions for reform. A careful statement

was prepared by Miss Schartau and sent to the Minister on
July 10th.

The Growth of the Vegetarian Movement. One result
of the Slaughter Reform movement has been a great increase in
the number of people who give up eating meat. They wish
to be free from participation in the horrors of the slaughter—
houses. The London Vegetarian Society has distinguished
itself by well-conducted propaganda and the publication of
excellent articles dealing with the scientific and ethical reasons
for a bloodless diet.

On March 19th the Duchess of Hamilton tool: the Chair
at a dinner arranged by the London Vegetarian Society. In
her speech she referred to the great pioneer work carried out
by the late Dr. Anna Kingsford and her friend, Edward
Maitland, to whom abstinence from meat was not only a
dietetic reform but the foundation of the truly spiritual life,
which cannot accept physical sustenance at the price of the
suffering and misery of fellow—creatures. She dealt at length
with the cruelties of slaughter and with the natural reaction
of sensitive people who abstain altogether from participation in
these barbarities. Her speech was reported in the Morning
Post, the Daily Telegraph, the Daily Mail, the Evening
Standard, the Yorhshire Evening drgus, the Nottingham
Evening Post, the Glasgow Evening Citizen, the Glasgow
Evening Post, the Yorhshire Herald, the Sheﬂield Mail, the
Yorkshire Telegraph and Star, the Huddersﬁeld Daily
Examiner, the Sunday Mail, and other papers.

 

Questionnaire to Directors of Foreign Abattoirs.—
The following questions were addressed by Miss L. K.
Schartau to Directors of Foreign Abattoirsz—

Have you in your long and extensive experience of different
slaughtering methods found any foundation for the statement
continually made by representatives of the British Meat Trade
to the effect that animals, especially pigs, slaughtered with a bullet—
ﬁring Humane Killer or a captive bolt instrument bleed badly?

Have you found that the carcases of such animals keep less
well than‘those of animals killed by the pole—axe or knife?

Have you found that the ﬂesh of pigs killed humanely is
discoloured or “splashed” owing to imperfect bleeding?

Is it the experience of bacon curers in . . . . that pigs
humanely killed cannot be cured as easily and well as those killed
in the old way?

Do you consider that Humane Killers are dangerous to the
slaughtermen, and have, in your experience, accidents occurred
owmg to their use?

6.4

 




 

 

 

The authoritative replies received were highly satisfactory
as evidence of the complete success of humane slaughter in
other countries, and were published by your Council in news—
paper advertisements and pamphlets, which were distributed

to the Meat Trade.
Publications and World-Wide Distribution.——Many

pamphlets and leaflets already issued were reprinted to meet
the ever-increasing demand for facts and arguments. Amongst
new publications the following were issuedz—“Humanely—
Killed Meat” (pamphlet); “The Scandal of Britain’s
Slaughterhouses,” by the Duchess of Hamilton; “Deeds of
Dogs : Should They be Vivisected ?” “ Sport,” by Sir George
Greenwood; “Is it nothing to you, all ye that pass by?”
“ To all who are interested in Slaughter Reform.”

The record of publications sent out day by day from the
ofﬁces of the Society shows the wide scope of this activity,
and the large number of requests for publications received.
Parcels of publications were sent to many European countries,
to Canada, Australia, South Africa, the United States, and
India.‘

Personal letters were addressed to Members of Urban and
Rural District Councils asking them to consider and advo-
cate slaughter reform. In March 503 such. letters were posted
enclosing copies of the Report on the Birmingham Demon—
stration, replies to the objections of the Meat Trade, and
Essential Points of Slaughter Reform. Throughout the year
your Society was at work endeavouring to inﬂuence Local
Authorities to adopt Clause 9B. In April the pamphlet
entitled “Humanely-Killed Meat” was sent to London
County Councillors and Aldermen. Much work was done
with the object of inducing Co—operative Societies and VJomen’s
Guilds to adopt humane slaughter. House—to—house distri-
bution was undertaken on special occasions. Much work was
done in Ireland.

Your Society’s pictures and illustrations were exhibited
in Paris. A special appeal was made to the Clergy of the
Church of England, who received personal letteis and
publications with regard to, slaughter reform, .and also with
reference to sermons to be preached on “ Animals’ Sunday.”

Mr. W. S. Lloyd, Member of the Legislative Assembly of
Queensland, wrote asking for information with regard to
humane killing, especially with regard to the smaller animals
and poultry.

65

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Mr. J. P. Logan, Town Clerk for Bloemfontein, South
Africa, asked for the Birmingham Demonstration Report, and
stated that the Kosher method of killing was engaging the
attention of the Council, and that they wished to determine
the degree of cruelty associated with various methods of
killing. Mr. Logan stated that they had used the Humane
Killer in Bloomfontein for ten years.

The daughter of a slaughterman wrote to the Society ex-
pressing her distress at the way animals are slaughtered. She
ordered a Killer and cartridges to be sent anonymously to her
father and gave a list of butchers to whom she wanted
publications sent.

Mr. John Dodds’ Work—During 1923-24 the main part-
of Mr. Dodds’ time has necessarily been devoted to his duties
as Superintendent and lWeat Inspector at the Carlisle Public
Slaughterhouse, and in this capacity he has exercised great
inﬂuence, not only in his immediate sphere of work, but over
representatives of the Meat Trade, and other visitors from
different parts of the country who have come to see the
slaughtering methods carried out under Mr. Dodds’ superin—
tendence. Through Mr. Dodds’ personal inﬂuence, Carlisle-
has become the centre of Slaughter Reform, which has attracted
"both our opponents and sympathisers in search of information.
”Practically the whole of Mr. Dodds’ spare time has been
devoted to propaganda work. He has been ever ready to
throw in his inﬂuence on the side of Slaughter Reform in
controversies in the Press, and he has been indefatigable in
giving practical help and information to members of his own
trade and to workers for reform in Great Britain and in
Ireland. In the midst of his strenuous oﬂicial duties Mr.
Dodds has found time to address a number of meetings and
public bodies all over the country, and this has only been
possible by taking long night journeys at the end of which he
has been ready to resume his slaughterhouse work.

It is only possible here to give a brief resume of some of
the principal events in which Mir. Dodds took part. In
London, besides taking part in various interviews of impor-
tance in the active campaign carried on by the Society, Mr.
Dodds was one of the speakers at a Deputation which waited
on Mr. VVheatley, Minister of Health to the Labour Govern—
ment, then in power. The testimony of Mr. Dodds, based on
his 50 years’ practical connection in various capacities with
the lWeat Trade, made an obvious impression, and Mr.
Wheatley admitted its value. At the Animal Defence-
Society’s public Slaughter Reform meeting in the Steinway

66

 




 

 

Hall, Mr. Dodds was one of the chief speakers, and he dealt
forcibly with the considerable opposition raised at the meeting
by the hostile section of the Meat Trade. Mr. Dodds took
part in .a Deputation to the Sheﬂield Health Committee. The
occasion was of special importance as the Meat Trades
Federation had sent a strong Deputation led by their secretary,
lVIr. Payne, to present the case of our opponents against the
introduction of Humane Slaughtering. Mr. Dodds was able
to refute the erroneous assertions made and to make a strong
statement based on his extensive knowledge of both the old
and the new method of slaughtering. Mr. Dodds was invited
to lay our case for Slaughter Reform before the Corporation
of Glasgow. The Provost presided, and Mr. Dodds was
accorded a fair hearing, in spite of the somewhat Violent feeling
on the part of hostile meat traders present. An animated
and acrimonious discussion followed, in which a number of
butchers took part, some in favour of Slaughter Reform,
others strongly opposed to it. Mr. Dodds’ statements
made a considerable impression, and the subsequent victory
for Slaughter Reform in Glasgow has testiﬁed to the value'
of lVIr. Dodds’ work on that occasion. Mr. Dodds took part
in an enquiry held at Jedburgh, on the merits or otherwise
of the Humane Killer. On this occasion our opponents
among the butchers were well represented, and the whole
question thoroughly thrashed out. Mr. Dodds was closely
cross-examined on every point in his statement, and it is
satisfactory to note that the enquiry resulted in a Report
issued later by the Sheriff, in which the use of Humane
Killers in the slaughtering of all animals was recommended.
.At l‘v’Ielrose, Mr. Dodds conducted a most successful demon—
stration. The butchers present raised no criticism. In
Brampton where the Humane Killer was already in use for
cattle and for most of the pigs slaughtered, Mr. Dodds was
asked to demonstrate its efficacy and practicability for sheep.
The butchers were favourably impressed and stated that the-
Animal Defence Society’s Humane Killer, which was the
instrument used on that occasion, seemed to them the best
instrument they had yet seen for small animals.

Among the many meetings addressed by Mr. Dodds, only
a few of the more important can be mentioned here. At-
Liverpool a large and representative meeting was held in
which a great number of butchers took part. Mr. Dodds
was asked a number of questions at the conclusion of his
address, and the representatives of the Meat Trade declared
that if they could be convinced that Humane Slaughtering

67

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was not injurious to the meat they would see no objection to its
adoption. At Dumfries a largely-attended meeting was held,
at which the Medical Ofﬁcer of Health, a number of medical
men, many representatives of the local council, and several
butchers were present. On this occasion Air. Dodds was
accompanied by a Master Butcher, Mr. Doidge, and they both
addressed the meeting. A representative of the butchers spoke,
and at the Conclusion of his statement Mr. Doidge expressed
surprise that any member of the Meat Trade “could talk such
nonsense.” At the conclusion of the meeting the NIedical
‘Oﬂicer of Health expressed his satisfaction with the case pre-
sented for Humane Slaughtering, and stated that he had come
to the meeting with an open mind. Mr. Dodds accompanied
the Duchess of Hamilton and 7iWiss Lind-af—Hageby to
Birmingham, Belfast, and Bangor. At the meetings he
addressed himself specially to the many butchers present and
dealt with the objections raised.

Anti-Vivisection Bill in the House of Commons.—-—
Your Society received the following letter from Lieut.—Comdr.
Kenworthy, M.P., dated May 5th :—

“ I am introducing a Bill under the ten minutes rule to prevent
the expenditure of public moneys on vivisection experiments on
liv1ng animals. Please circulate your friends in the House of
‘Commons to support this with their votes at 3.45 pm. on
May 14th.”

Consequently lVIiss Lind-af—Hageby, on lVIay 12th, sent the
following letter to seventy—three Members of the House of
Commons, who had previously pledged themselves to support
the anti-vivisection policy of your Society.

“We have been .asked by Lieut.—Comdr. Kenworthy, MP, to
‘make known to friends of the anti—vivisection movement in the
House of Commons, that he is introducing a Bill under the ten
minutes. rule, to.prevent the expenditure of public money on
v1v1section experiments on living animals, on May 14th, at 3.45.
We beg you to do your utmost to be present and to support this
measure by your vote.”

The measure met with strong opposition, and was defeated
through lack of support. Your Council is of opinion that the
introduction of Parllamentary Bills without adequate prepara—
tion and agitatlon thoughout the country is useless and apt
to hlnder Instead of helping the cause. Your Council have
had much experience in the past in preparations for Parlia-
mentary action, and though ready to assist all efforts on behalf
of suffering animals, consider that the choice of time and the
most careful consideration of circumstances are of the greatest
importance.

()8

 




 

The Annual Business Meeting was held at 35, Old2
Bond Street, on November let. The Chair was taken by
the Duchess of Hamilton. The Report and Financial State-
ment for the year 1923 were read and adopted. The list of
subscribers and the Financial Statement were published and
issued to all Members and Associates; the printing of the
Report of work done was, for reasons of economy, postponed,

so as to enable your Council to issue it together with the Report
for the year 1924.

There was a large attendance and Nliss Lind—af—Hageby,
delivered an address on “Rodeo and Cruelties of Slaughter:
How we Propose to Inﬂuence the: Public.”

Humane Exhibition.——The Exhibition was Opened to the
public on the occasion of the Annual Meeting, on November
let, and attracted much attention. On December 5th The
Times contained a notice, from which we quote the
following :—

“The capital features of the exhibition are life—sized models of
a slaughter—house of the usual type (it is not a pleasant sight),

and of such a slaughter-house as the society is labouring to
bring into general use.

“These models tell their own tale, as do certain other exhibits
of the humane and the other sort of weapons, and the results
which they obtain. A small scale model of an ideal abattoir, which
i: is proposed to build and equip, catches the attention by its
roominess, its airiness, and the many devices for saving the
animals’ distress and the meat from unwholesome treatment. Gloves.
and wraps that had no animal origin, yet look and feel exactly
like leather or fur, and food that has no animal substance irrv
_1t, are shown for the beneﬁt of the stricter abstainers from the
use of animal life; the exhibits that concern slaughter and the

handling of meat touch a matter of public health and public
interest as well as of sentiment.”

Country Life Diary (for 1925).——-This attractive
publication, issued by Charles Letts & Co., and edited by Mr.
Richard Morse the distinguished writer and lecturer on
natural history, contained an introduction by the Duchess of
Hamilton and Miss Lind—af—Hageby, and a page descriptive of"
the Society’s work by the Editor. All lovers of animals
should possess this little Diary which is a treasure—house of

information for all who want to ﬁnd the beauty and peace
of Nature.

The Honorary Treasurer.—To Miss B. C. Delius, who
has acted as Hon. Treasurer to the Society since its founda~
tion in 1906, and who has, with deep devotion to the Cause
and a never-failing sense of duty, carried on the task of"
managing the ﬁnancial side of the work, Members of the

60 'l i ,

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Society feel greatly indebted. lVIiss Delius has personally
attended to all details of finance, which has entailed heavy
work. To her inﬁnite care, great ability and practical
knowledge the success of your Society in keeping out of debt
and maintaining a vast ﬁeld of work on limited resources for
a great number of years is largely due.

The Sanatorium Beausoleil. lVIiss Lind—af—Hageby has
carried on her Sanatorium at Carqueiranne, in France (a
work unconnected With your Society, yet strengthening the
Cause for Which it stands), for children from the devastated
parts of France, suffering from tuberculosis of the joints and
rickets. The children are treated by sunlight, sea baths,
exercises, and diet, in surroundings of great natural beauty,
peace and loving care. Remarkable results have been achieved.
The methods used are the antithesis of the theories and pro—
ducts of the vivisectional laboratories. The French Govern—
ment have expressed their satisfaction at the results by
awarding the Sanatorium the Diplome de Grand Prix and the
Dipléme d’Honneur of the French Ministry of Health.

 

Legacies.——Your Council gratefully acknowledge Legacies
left to your Society in 1923 under the VVills of Miss N. C.
“Carey, £201 108. 0d.; lWiss 31. Taylor, £57 19s. 8d.; Miss E.
Greenheugh, £30; in 1921L under the VVill of ers. Helen
TStraus, £50.

\1
C

 




 

List of Subscriptions and Donations
TO

The Animal Defence and
Anti-Vivisection Society, 1923.

 

:E s. d.
Abbatt, G. W., Esq. (d) 5 0
Abbott, Mrs. E. E. (s) 2 2 0
Allison, James, Esq. (d) 10 0
Anderson, Miss M. A. (s) 2 6
Anonymous (for Model Abattoir). (d) IO 0
Anonymous (d) 10 0
Anonymous (d) 5 0
Anonymous (d) 2 6
Anonymous (d) 2 6
Anonymous (d) l 6
Aris, Miss A... (s) 5 0 O
Arkwright, Mrs. W. (for Slaughtei Reform) (d) 2 6
Ashmore, Miss S. ,, ,, (d) 5 0
Bailey, C. H., Esq. (s) 5 O
Bailey, Miss M. . (s) 10 6
Baillie- Hamilton, The Lady Grisell. . . (d) 5 O
Baines, Mrs. L. (for Slaughter Refoim). (d) 5 O
Balfom, Mrs. ,, . (d) 2 I) 0
Banks, Mrs. (In Memory of Leslie Banks,

Gallipoli, 1915). (s) ‘10 6
Batchelor, H. Crouch, Esq. (d) 1 O 0
Baxter, Mr and Mrs. Fleming (s) 10 0 O
Bayley, l\Irs. (d) 6
Bell, Dr. Robert (d) I O 0
Bell, Mr. and Mrs. W. (s) 5 O
Beningﬁeld, Miss (d) l 1 0
Bennett, M. 1., Esq. (d) 5 O 0
Bertie of Thaine, The Viscount (d) ‘1 O 0
Bigge, Mrs. (s) I 0 0
Bignold, Lady (113i Slaughter Reform) (d) l l 0
Bisdee, Miss M. (s) 10 6
Bishop, Miss E. G. (s) 5 0
Blamires, Mrs. M. E. (d) 5 0 0
Blum, Mrs... (s) 6 6
Bonus, Miss E. (s) ‘10 O
Bowden, Dr. R. T. (s) 2 '2 O
Bradish, Mrs. Ellames (d) 10 0
Brathwaite, Miss (s) 2 6
Bright, Miss Esther .. (d) 25 0 0
Bristol, Collection at Slaughter Reform Meeting (coll) 12 5 O

71

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Bristol, Sale of Tickets

Brooke, Miss II. A. ..

Brotherhood Confeience, Mortimer IIaIl

Brough, Mrs. ..

Broughton, Mrs. II. ..

Brown} ow, Mrs. Celadon (Io1 Slaupht e1 Refo1m)

Bruce, Mrs. Charles R. H. (for Slaught e1 Reform)

Bruce, Miss Isabel ..

Bruce Miss Isabel

Bruce, Miss Isabel

B1yceson II. Esq

Bry<:,Ien W. Erithq Esq

BulIen— Smith, Miss L...

Burness, Mrs. E. M. (for Slaughter Reform)

Burnham— —on— Sea (Collection at Slauohter Reform
Meeting)

Burnham- -on- Sea (Collection at Meeting, National
Council of Women of Great Britain arid Ireland
for Slaughter Reform)

Bury St E1 munds (Collected at Miss \‘1a1ner’s
Slaughter Refo1m Lecture) .

Bush, IIiss G.

Butt, M13. Harley

Byion, Miss . .

Campbell, Miss E. C.

Capon, Miss E. II.

Capper, Mrs. Bentley

Capper, Mrs. Bentley

Cardwell, P. B. Esq.

Carryer, Mrs. M.

Ca1117a1dine,W. I, Esq

Carwa dine, W. T., Esq.

Carwardine, W J., Esq.

Chadwick, The Misses

Champ, St ephen, Esq.

Chapmz‘ 11, Mrs. Mary H. E.

Cha1lemont, The Viscount (for Slaughter Reform)

Chichester, Mrs. Henry .

Christie, W. C B., Esq. . .

Church Congress Humane Appliances Exhibition,
Plymouth .

Churcher, IIiss II .

C obbe IIiss E. Conway

Cole, IIiss C. B.

Cole, Miss E. C.

Collard, Mrs. A. E.

Colvin, Deaconess Annie

CoIvin, Miss A. My

Congreve, Lady

Congreve, Lady

Congreve, Mrs.

Congreve, Mrs.

Corﬁeld, Miss

Corner, Miss Nina

Carney, Miss A. J.

\1
ix)

raw-100““

Hv—Aoo N

NN

h—J

HHNmNQQHmthmr-AAE"

1—A 1—4
CHOOCQ H b.)

1—4

HmOHNOAmmOONP-‘NH

h—d

bulb—A

1—11-1 I
mmmNOOOmmmOOmooo

1.;
OOOOOQOOOOOOOOO OOOOQQQONONOOOOONO COCO 4-:

m 00010006100000.1630.) 9‘

 




 

 

f s. 6
‘Cory, Lady (for Slaughter Reform) (d) 10 10
Cotterell, 0...,BE Miss M. .. (s) 10
Cox, Miss F. E (d) 10
Cox, Miss M (for. Slaughter Reform) (d) 2
Cox, Miss N. F. (d) 10
Craig, A. W., Esq (d) 2
Crawford, Mrs. (d) 5
Crothers, Miss J. (s) 1 O
Culme— Seymour, Mrs. (d) 3 §
Cumming, Miss A. P. (d) 3
D’Arcy, La Vicomtesse (for Slaughter Reform) (s) 2
Davidson, Miss H. I. S. (s) 10
.Deacon, Miss B. (d) 1 0
Dean, The Misses M. and A. (d) 2
Delasalle, Mrs. Horace (s) 2 2
Delius, Miss (s) 3 O
Denton, Mrs. Rose (d) IQ
Dexter, Mrs. T. (d) 5
Dixon, Mrs. .. . (s) 1 0
Douglas- -I-Iami1ton, Mrs. 3 (d) 23 0
Douglas— —Hami1ton, The Lady Mairi (s) 2
Douglas— -Hamilton, The Lord Malcolm (s) 2
Douglas— Hamilton, The Lord Malcolm (coll) 16
Drake, Mrs. Hornsby (for Slaughter Reform) (d) _ 10
Drakoules, Mrs. Platon . (d) a 5
Draper, Mrs. (d) 5
Drury, Mrs. Garling ... (s) 10
Dudley Jackson, Miss - (s) 1 0
Duguid, Mrs. . (s) 10
Dunn, \Iiss Sylvia (s) 10
Durand, \Irs. ..M (for Slaughter Reform) (d) 10

EM. ((1)

0000000000 OOOCDOCOOCVOO‘ @OOOOOOQOOOOOOOOOOOOO 0000000000!

2

' E. M. (d) 3
E. M. T. . (d) 1
Eaton, \Irs. 1\I. (for Slaughter Reform) .. (s) 1 1
Eddy Mrs. M. (d) 10
Eden, Mrs. (s) 2
Elder, Miss E. G.. (s) 2 O
Enberg, Miss (s) 10
Enberg, Miss (d) F 10
Ercour, La Marquise d’. (s) :1 0
Evans, Mrs. A. M. (d) 5
Everest, Miss (s) 10
Fairless, Miss S. A. (s) 5
“Fairy” . . (d) 2
Fanny, Sister (s) 3 0
Fenwick, Rev. and Mrs. R. J. (d) 1 O
Fletcher, Miss M. E. .. (s) 1 O
Foote, Lady (d) 1 10
Forbes, Mrs. George ... ... (s) 5
Formilli, Mrs. (for Slaughter Reform) (d) 2 O
Forsyth, Miss (s) 1 0
Foster, E. G., Esq. (d) 2 O

73

 




 

 

 

 

 

Francis, F. ., Esq. (for Slaughter Reform).
Franks, Miss S.

Franks, Miss S. (for Old Horse Trafﬁc Fund)
Fremlin, Mrs. R. “I.

Friend, A.

Friend, A.

Fulton, Lady

Fulton, Lady

Furber, H., Esq.

Furner, Miss E. N.

Gairdner, Miss

Garside, Miss D. . .

Garside, Miss D.

Gates, Mrs. P. G.

Gibbs, The Misses

Gillespie, Miss A.

Gilmore, Mrs. W. E.

Goodacre, Mrs. H.

Gosset, Miss Laura ..

Goulding, Mrs. H. (for Slaughter Reform)
G1een, Miss
Green, Miss (for I924).

Green, Miss (for Slaughter Reform)
Greg, Mrs. W. W. .

Greville, Miss

Grieve, Miss E. deHW. (for Slaughter Reform)

Grieve, Miss E. de W

Grifﬁth, Miss M. T.

Grifﬁths, Mrs. F. E. ...
Grinling, D G., Esq. (for 1924)::
Gulland, Miss E

Gundersen, Miss M.
Gundersen, Miss M.

Hall, L. B, Esq. (for Slaughter Reform).
Hall, Miss Mary.
Hall, Miss Mary.

Halliday, Miss A.

Halliday, Miss A

Hames, Mrs. C. ..

Hamilton, The Duchess of

Hamilton, The Duchess of

Hamilton, The Duchess of

Hamilton, The Duchess of

Hamilton, Miss Jane

Hammond, Miss \I. ..

Hardcastle, Mrs. F. (for Slaughter Reform)
Harding, \Iiss E.

Harman, M. C. Esq. (for Slaughter Reform)
Harris, Miss ..

Harris, Rex Chas K. B.

Harrison Chas. W., Esq.

Harrison, Miss I.

Harsant, Miss A. (Model Abattoir).

Hart, James Hopgood, Esq. ..

74

031—1
mNOOHw

h—l v—n—A
OHOO

1—H—A
CNU’IN

y...

H

H

' 1—5
mNNNoommommo—xoaoooowom HANHNONNOONmmMNmomN

o—n—H—H—a
HOOOOU‘S”

ﬂ

oooooaooooooooc?co©90 QOQOQOQOOOOOQOQOOOOQOQO OGCOCOOCOOK

H

 




 

Hart, Samuel Hopgood, Esq.
Harvey Miss H. L.
Hasell, The Rev. Canon”
Hasell, The Rev. Canon
Hatley, A. J., Esq.
Hawkins, Miss E.
Haworth— Booth, Mrs.
Haylor, Mrs. Dunn
Hayne- Smith, Mrs. H. (Model Abattoir)
Hays, Alfred, Esq. .
Heath, Mrs ..
Heath, Mrs L. ..
Henshaw, Miss P.
Herman, Mrs.

Heslop, Miss P.

Hill, Mrs. Norman .
Hillman, E. Haviland, Esq.
Hirst, Mrs. E. ..
Hodgkin, C. E., Esq.
Holland, Chailes, Esq
Holt, Mrs.

Hopkins, Mrs. E. P.
Hough, Mrs ..
Hughes, Miss E. C. V.
Hughes: Miss ..

Hull, Miss A. C.
Hume, Mrs.
Hunter, Lady Hughes
Huntriss, Miss L.
Hurst, Spencer, Esq.
Hutton, Stanley, Esq.

Ibbotson, Miss Ruth
Ibbotson, Miss Ruth
Irving, Miss I. . .
Irving, Miss V.
Irving, Miss V.

Jahn, Mrs

Jerwood, \Irs. B. J. (for Slaughter Reform).
Johns, A E., Esq. .
Jones, J. T., Esq.

Jones-Parry, Miss

Joseph, Mrs. Michael

Kearne, Mrs.

Kearne, Miss B.

Kearne, Miss L.

Kearne, Miss L.

Kendall, Miss G.

Kendall, Miss G.

Kennedy, Mrs. Margaret

Kershaw, Mrs. Melville ..

King, Mrs. Saba Bushell ..

King, Mrs. Saba Bushell (for Slaughter Reform)
Kingsford, Miss E. B. (for Slaughter Reform)

75

141—101 U1

NN

r—n—u—s HP—‘H
OOUai—tmOO

HH

1—:
m MONOONl—‘U'INOOU—ll—‘NOCOUIH

H 1-;
COLIN—‘00 U’IU‘INUI

H

1...‘
OONvmmHOr—IHO

011—41—‘(111—‘512

CL

b—l
OO‘OOOOOQOOO

 

 




 

 

 

Kingsford, Miss E. B.

Kirkpatrick, Miss Ida

Knight, W. H., Esq.

Knight, Mrs. W. H. ...

Knoop, The Baroness de

Koeune, The Misses

Kuhn, Miss E. (for Slaughter Refoim)
Kyd, Miss G. B.

Laidlaw, Miss A. G.

Lardelli, Miss .

Lardelli, \Iiss (In Remembrance).

Large, Mrs. John

Latta, Bt., Sir John

Latta, Bt., Sir John

Law, Mrs. E1nest

Lee, Mrs. E. .

Lee, Harold, Esq. (for Slaughter Reform)

Lees, Lady

Leslie, \Irs. .

Lind— af- Hageby, Miss

Lind— af— Hageby, Miss

Lind- af— Hageby, (Income on residue of Estate of:
the late Mrs. Harford ”Adlam).

Logan, Mrs. ..

Logan, Miss N.

Long, Miss .

Lovibond, Miss H G.

Luck, Mrs. . ..

Lupton, Mrs.

Lushington, Sir Arthur (Ior Slaughter Reform)

Lutyens, M15.

Macalaster, Mrs. Muir,

McCann, Mrs.

MacDonnell, Miss L. ..

MacDonnell, Captain R.

MacGeorge, Miss F.

'MacGeorge, Miss F.

McHughes, Mrs. ..

Mackay, A. D. Esq. .

Macleod, Keith, Esq. (for Slaughter Reform).

McMicking, Mrs A. M. “(for Slaughter Reform)

Mactaggart, Mrs. .

Magrane, Mrs. V.

Maitland, Mrs. (for Slaughter Reform).

Makepeace, Mrs. Colyer

Malet, Lady

Manchester Spiritualists’ Central Propaganda
Committee

Manning, Miss

Marras, Mrs. Mowbray

Marshall, Miss Molly

Martin, Miss J. .

Massy, Mrs. G. J.

Mayor, C., Esq.

76

2+.

I—‘NN

25

0’1
[0

t—H—‘0 U100

[\D

H NR)

F—‘Ul

(n
O.
H0000000 .

1—4
OUIIUNC») OOUH-‘IO

)--Ab-—‘
\100

y“:

H OHOIUl‘QIUb—‘CDO 0C»

...;

»—* rJll‘Q to O lx) to Ix.) to 9301010!

F—A
l‘Q'J1ODJNF-‘UI

1—41—11
N00 .

0000000 -00000C3\O\O\O\00000\0 000000000 0000000000000

 




 

\Ieadows, Miss F. E. .. ...
\Iey,er A. F., Esq. .(Ior Slaughter Reform)
Merry, Mrs. J. .. ..
Middlewood, Miss

Miles, Mr. Derwent VI.

Miles, Mrs. Derwent M.

Miller, Mrs.

Miller, Mrs.

Millery, Miss

Mills, Miss M. A. H.

Moore, Lt.-Col. F. L.

Morgan, Mrs. H. H.

Morris, Miss E. ..

Morris, Miss M. E.

Mott, Miss B. M.

\Iulhallen, Mrs. BieW ..

Muntz, Mrs. I. (for Slaughter Reform)

Nelson, A. I\Iinto, Esq.

Newman \Iiss B. E.

Nolloth, D..,D The Rev. Canon
Norris, Mrs.

Northcott, VIiss (Ior Slaughter ReIoim)
Nutting, Miss M. .

Odette, Miss Mary

Office Collecting Box ..

O’ Hagan, The Lord (for Slaughter Reform)
Olixer- Jones, Miss W. M. ..

Olsen, \Iiss

Olympia Horse Show, Collection at”

Orr, James, Esq. . ..
Oxerall A., Esq.

Ox erbury, Miss H. E. (for Slaughter Reform)

Page, \Iis (for Slaughter Reform)

Paget, \IajorJ. B. (for Distribution of Publications)

Paget, \IajorJ. B. (for Distribution of Publications)

Paget, \Iajor J. B. (for Distribution of Publications)

Paine, Mrs. Lewis ..

Palairet, Mrs.

Partridge, Miss St. John (In Memory of MDD)

Partridge, Miss St John ..

Pelly, Amy, Lady

Peniston, Miss

Perkins, Mrs. E. A.

Petit, Mdlle.

Philpott, Miss .

Pickard- Cambridge, Miss M.

Pierrepont, Miss ..

Pinner Society Ior the Humane Slaughter of
Animals (for Slaughter Reform)...

Pitt, Mrs. (Ior Slaughtei Reform)

Porter, Miss ..

Poulter, Miss C. ..

'77

(d) 2
(d) 1 1
(d) 1 0
(s) 5 0
(s) 10
(s) 5
(s) 25 0
(d) 30 0
(s) 10
(d) 2
(d 5
(C1) 5
(s) 10
(s) 2 2
(d) 1 1
(s) 2
(d) 1 0
(d) 5
(s) 1 O
(s) 10
(s) 2 0
(d) S
(s) 10
(s) 3 0
(coll) 10
(d) 1 1
(d) 10
(s) 10
(coll) 23 16
(s) 5
(d) 1
(d) 5
(d) 10
(d) 25 0
(d) 42 0
(d) 21 7
(s) 5
(s) 1 0
(d) 5 0
(d) 2
(d) 1 0
(s) 1 0
(s) 10
(d) 5
(d) 2
(s) 10
(s) 5
(d) 1 1
(d) 1
(s) 2
(coll) 7

 

 




 

 

Poulter, Miss C.

Prescott, Hugh, Esq. (for Slaughter Reform).

'Quicke, Miss E. P.

Rafﬂes, Mrs.

Rankin, Mrs. T. B. (for Slaughter Reform)

Redmayne, M15.
Reeve, Miss .
Rendall, Miss G. E
Rendlesham, Lady
Renton, Mrs. C.
Rieschbeth, Miss
Roberts, Mrs.

Roberts, F. VV., .Esq.

Robertson, Mrs.

Robertson, Miss K. L.
Robinson, Miss E. M.
.Ro‘llest-on, Miss Daisy

.Rose, R. W. Esq.

Rowbotham, D.D., The Rev. J: F. .IColle-ction at

Sutton Cheney Church)
Rowland, \Iiss D.
Rowland, BIiss K.

Ixussell, The Misses (for Slaughter Refonn)

Sadler, \Irs.
Sanders, Miss

Sangster, A. E., Esq, MHRCVS.

Savage, \Iiss \I.
Sawers, Miss E.

Scammell, Miss E'I'A. III
Schartau, Miss L. K.

Scholeﬁeld, E, Esq.
Scholeﬁeld, Mrs.

Schuster, Miss A. (Model Abattoir)”

Scott, Miss E. M.
Sellon, Miss A. E.

Shakespeare, H. W. R., Esq.

Shand, Mrs
Shaw, Mrs. Cecil.
Sheppard, Mrs. H

(In \Iemory of Leslie Banks Gallipoli, I915)
Simon, Lady (for Slaughter Reform) ..

Simpson, \Irs. VI.
Skeen, Miss
Smart, Mrs.
Smith, The Misses
Smith, Miss E. J.

Smith, Mrs. Montgomery

Smithﬁeld Cattle Show,
Exhibition .

Smithson, Mrs.

Smyth, Mrs.

Snow, Mrs. F.

Collection at Humane

78

1.4'
fJ‘lUiUtOmOLﬂr—tNr—«Nt—ACOJN

Ul

5—].

1

0111010

b—4

1—1
NF—IOOONVOC‘CWOMIUNO

OHLHNNCC)

V—A
H601»

OR)?”

VA

mo.“

CD

000:: ooooooccooooomo

OOOOOO‘VO‘VQOOOOOOQO

COCO OMOC‘VOOO

 




 

Spackman, Miss C.

Spicer, Mrs. D. ..

Spiers, Mrs. Victor

Stacey, F. C., Esq

Stacey, F. C., Esq. (for 1924)::

Stanley, Lady .

Stanley, Lady

Stanton, Mrs.

Stibbs, Mrs. M.

Stone, Richard, Esq.

Stothert, A. K., Esq. .

Strange, Miss V. Lq (Model Abattoir) .
Strauss, Mrs. B. (for Slaughter Reform)...
Stubbs, Mrs. .
Suckling, Mrs.

Suckling, Mrs.
Swanberg, Dr. (for Slaughter Reform)
Swanberg, Mrs.
Tharp, Mrs. A. L...
Theosophical Society, West London. Lodge
Thomas, Mrs. E. ..
Thomas, Mrs. E.

Thomas, Mrs. E.

Thomas, G. Esq .

Thomson, M1.s Hedley.

Thorrington, Mr. and Mrs. F. W.
Thwaites, Mrs. .
Tibbles, Mrs.

Tibbles, Mrs.

Timewell, Mrs. .

Tollemache, Lady

Trachy, Mrs. C. S.

Trangmar, Mr. F.

Turner, Lt.—Col. E.

Turner, Miss Helen

Turnour, Mrs. G.

Tyler, Miss Theo.

Vallot, Mdlle. A.

Vannan, Mrs. M. E ..

Vannan, Mrs. M. E. (for Slaughter Reform)
Vaudrey, \Irs.

Vismes et de Ponthieu, Countess Raoul de

Waddingham, Mrs

Walker, W. H. H., Esq (for Slaughter Reform)
Walpole, Lady (for Slaughter Reform)

Walshe, F. E., Esq.

Walshe, F. E., Esq. (for Slaughter Reform)
Walter, Mrs. A. .

Watson, Mrs Tweedie

Weaver, Miss H. S.

Webb, Miss .

Weekes, Miss H. A.

79

pay—.1

6309011“

[‘0 [\J

[\Mn-t

01001

r—w-‘Ln

s. d.
10 O
2 6
IO 0
2 6
2 6
l O
10 6
O O
2 8
O 0
0 0
O 0
2 O
3 O
5 U
10 O
0 O
2 0
0 0
ll 6
2 O
2 O
2 6
1 0
0 0
10 0
l 0
2 6
2 6
Z 6
O 0
2 6
2 6
O 0
0 0
2 6
2 6 ,
2 6
l 0
1 O
10 0
5 O
5 0
6 O
0 0
2 6
2 6
0 O
0 0
1 0
10 O
0 0

 




 

Welch, Harold, Esq. ..

Wellbeloved, MissM L. (for Slaughter Reform)
Welton, Mrs.

\Nemyss, Grace, Countess of (for Slaughter Reform)
Weston- Stevens, Miss (for Slaughter Reform)
Whalley, Mrs.

Whilliers, Miss

White, Mrs.

\Nhitney, Mrs.

Widdicombe, Mrs. .

Wilde, Mrs. A. de ..

Williams, Howard, Esq

Williams, Miss

VVillifer, Mrs.

Wilson, The Rev. D.

Wilson, W. A., Esq.

“ Windfall ”

“ Windfall ” ..

VVithall, Mrs. H.

Wolff, Mrs. M. de (for Slaughter Reform)
Woodiﬁeld, Miss ..
Wright, Miss C.

Wright, Miss F. M. ...

Wycliffe, Goodwin, Mrs.

Wynn, Mrs. ..

Wynne, Mrs. S. P.

Yarrow, Lady (for Slaughter Reform)
Yates, Miss ..
Youde, Mr. and Mrs.

 

 

80

i s.
(d) 10
(d) 1
(s) 10
(s) 1 0
(d) 50 0
(s) 5
(s) 2
(s) 10
(s) 30 0
(s) 2
(d) 4
(d) 5 0
(d) 1
(d) 2
(s) 2
(s) 1 0
(d) 100 0
(d) 11 0
(s) 5
(d) 2 2
(d) 1 1
(s) 10
(d) 50 0
(d) 3 3
(s) 2
(d) 10
(d) 50 0
(s) 2
(s) 1 0

£1,222 4

m coo OQOooooooooooooooooqoooooc9

 

 




The Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society.

 

Year ending December 3lst, 1923.

 

 

 

 

 

RECEIPTS. 75 s. d. 1 EXPENDITURE. i s. d.

To Balance from Last Account ...2,931 4 10 By Publications, Printing Stationery 657 14 2
,, Subscriptions, Donations and Collections ...1,222 4 7 ,, Rent and Ofﬁce Expenses 380 13 6
,, Legacies 289 9 8 .. Meetings, Lectures, Humane Slaughter
,, Interest on Deposit . 44 17 9 Demontrations and Exhibitions 750 16 2
,, Dividends paid by Trustee .of Uruguay ,, Clerical Assistance 30916 9
Bonds bequeathed by the late Capt. H ,, Postage and Telephone 271 0 11
Quintanilha . 13 9 ,, Advertisements . 125 11 3
Sale of Humane Slaughter Appliances 15717 , Humane Slaughter Appliances 209 4 9
,, Sundry Sales 1216 ,, Storage of Publications . 2911 6
1
1

81

HOW)

,, Legal Expenses, Bank Charges, Audit Fee 10 9
,, Balance at Bank and in Hand ...1,927 1

3 ~ ' £4,67119 2 ' 14,671 19 2

 

 

it

 

B. C. DELIUS Hon. Treasurer.

 

 

 

I have examined the above statement of Cash Receipts and Payments With the books and vouchers relating
thereto, and found it to be correct.

Norfolk House, Laurence Pountney Hill, London, EC. C. K. VOKINS, CA,
November 14th, 1924. Auditor.

 




 

List of Subscriptions and Donations
T0

The Animal Defence and

 

 

. C O C .
Antl-Vlwsectlon Society, 1924.
2‘3 5. d.
Abbatt, G. NM, Esq. (s) 5 0
Abbott, M1s. E. E. (s) 2 2 0
Abbott, I. R., Esq (s) 10 O
Acland— Hood, Theq Lady Helena (s) 1 1 O
Aitken, Miss . (d) 10 O
Alehin, Mrs. Go1d0n (Slaughter Reform) (d) 1 0
Allen, Miss A. G. (s) 1 0 0
Allison, James, Esq. .. (d) 1 0 0
Allenson Mrs. Cecilq (Slaughter Reform) (d) 10 O
Alston, Miss E. (s) 1 0 O
Andrews, IVI1s. Julia (Slaughter Reform) (d) 10 0
Andrews, NIrs. Julia (d) 10 0
Annual Meeting, Collection at (coll) 413 9
Anonymous (Slaughter Reform) (d) 1 0 0
Anonymous (d) 5 0
Anonymous (Lover of Animals) (d) , 5 0
Anonymous ...... (d) 20 0 0
Anonymous (d) 2 6
Anonymous (d) 10 O
Aris, Miss A. (s) 5 0 0
A11iss, Geo1ge, Esq. (d) 5 O 0
Ash, Claudius Esq.q (Slaughter Reform). (d) 5 0
Ashton The Hon. Iona (Slaughter Reform) (d) 1 1 0
Axton, Mrs. Jane .. (s) 2 0 O
(8 yrs.)
Bailey, C. H., Esq. (d) 2 6'
Bailey, C. H., Esq. (d) 2 6
Bailey N—N’mthington, Mrs. (d) 10 0 O
Bailey—V‘Jorthin gton, Mrs. ... . . . (d) 150 0 0
Balfour, Mrs. (Slaughter Reform). (d) 2 2 0
Banks, Mrs. (In mem01y of Leslie Banks,

Gallipoli, 1915) . (s) 10 6
Ba1ke1, Miss F (Slaughter Reform) (d) 10 0
Ba11ington, The Hon. Lady (s) 2 2 0
Batchelor H. Crouch, Esq. (d) 10 6
Bell, I31 Robert .. (s) 1 0 0
Bell, M1. and Mrs. W. (s) 5 0
Bellshill, Sympathisers in (d) 1 3 0
Bennett, M. I, Esq. (s) 3 3 O
Berrett, Miss L. (s) 5. 0
Bigge, Mrs. (s) 1 O 0
Bignoid, Lady (s) 10 0

82

 

 




 

 

 

 

Birch, iVIiss M. E.

Bisdee, Miss M.

Blamires, Mrs.

Blurm, Mrs.

Borish, Mrs. .

Bowden, Dr. R. T.

Brathwaite, Miss

'Brett, Mrs. Templeton (Slaughter Reform)
Brice, Miss Ellen

Broadhurst, H. A., Esq. (Slaughter Reform)

Broadhurst, H. A. Esq.

Brough, Mrs. ..

Broughton, \Irs. M ..

Brown, H. S. Esq (Slaughter Reform).
Bruce, Miss I.
Bruce, \Iiss I.

Bruce, Mrs R. H. .

Bryceson, H. Esq. (Slaughter Reform).
Bullen— Smith, Miss L.

Bullock, Miss A.

Bullock, Miss A.

Burnett, Mrs. (Slaughter Reform).
Bur1idge, Mrs.

Burrell, W., Esq. (Slaughter Reform)
Bush, Miss G.

Bush, \Iiss G. (Slaughter Reform).
Butt, Mrs. Harley

Campbell, Miss E. C. (Slaughter Reform).
Capper, Mrs Bentley (Slaughter Reform).
Capon, Miss E. M.

Carr, Miss \I. E.

Carryer, Mrs. M. . .

Chadwick, The Misses

Chadwick, The Misses

Champ, Stephen, Esq. (Slaughter Refo1in)
Champ, Stephen, Esq. (Slaughter Reform)
Chapman, \Irs. Mary H. F.

Christie, W. C. B. Esq.

Christchurch Collection at

Churcher, Miss M.

Clinch, Mrs. VI. C. (Slaughter Reform)
Clitherow, Mrs. Stracey .

Clitherow, Mrs. Stracey

Coates, Mrs. EleanorA .(Slaughter Reform)

Collard, Mrs. A. F.

Cole, Miss C. B.

Cole, Miss E. C.

Cole, Miss E. C.

Colvin, Miss A. M.
Colvin, Deaconess Annie
Compton— Rickett, L. A. Esq.
Congreve, Lady .
Congreve, Mrs. ..
Cook, Miss Fiances M.

83

HHH

mmmm Nb-dr—A

LnNr—s

H

1—; )..-L

oOOOONmmHmOOOQmNNv-‘ONNNNVOUINS”

>--t

D—l
(RUINOmU‘lU'lOONOLnOOONI—‘HUIUIOOOONNH

Hit-d

oooooooooooooaooomooooooocoP

 




 

 

 

£ 5. d.
Corﬁeld, Miss (d) 5 0
Corney, Miss A. I. (S) 5 0
Cory, Mrs. (Slaughter Refoim) (d) 1 l 0
Covington, Miss (<1) 3 ‘ 6
COX, Miss F. E. (s) 10 0
COX, Miss N. F. (s) 10 0
Cox, W. A. Esq. (Slaughter Reform) ('11) S 0
COX, Miss M. .. .. (1:1) 2 6
Craig, A. W.. Esq. ... (s) 2 6
Cromwell, Miss (Slaughter Re'fo1m)“. ((1)5 0
Crothers, Miss I. .. (s) 1 0 O
Croucher, Mrs. T. (s) 2 6
Crowther— Smith, Miss L. F. (d) 2 L3 0
Culme— Seymour, Mrs. (11“ , 5 5 0
Cumming, Miss A. P. (s) 5 0
D’Arcy, Vicomtesse (Slaughter Refo1m). (s) 2 6
Davidson, Miss H. I. S. (S1 10 6
Day, Miss Maiy W. (s) 1 1 0
Dean, The Misses M. and A (d) .3 0
Dean, The Misses M. and A. (d) a 0
Delaselle, Mrs. Horace (s) 1 1 0
Delius, Miss B. C. (s) 3 0 0
Dennis, Mrs. (d) 5 O
Denton, Mrs. Rose (d) 1 1 O
Dexte1, M15. T. (s) 5 0
Dixon, M1s (s) 1 0 0
Dog Show (Agiicultural Hall) (coll) 18 7
Denisthorpe, Miss Frances (Slaughter Reform) ((1) 1 O 0
Douglas and Clydesdale, Marquis of (s) 5 0 0
Douglas- Hamilton, The Lady Mairi (s) 10 0
Douglas- Hamilton, The Lady Maiii (d) 2 6
Drakoules, Mrs. Platon (s) 5 5 0
Drury, Mrs. Garling (s) 10 0
Drury, Mrs. Garling (d) 5 0
Dudley, Miss Jackson (s) 2 2 0
Duff— Gillespie, Miss (Slaughter Reform). (3) 2 0
Dunboyne, Lady Maud .. (d) 10 0
Dunn, Miss Sylvia (s) 1. 0
Dunn, Miss Sylvia (d) 10 0
Durand, Mrs. Ralph (s) 10 6
‘ Earned Income” (d) 1 11 6
East, Mrs. (Slaughte1 Reform) (s) 1 0
East, Mrs . (s) 1 O
Easton, Mrs. M. (d) 2 6
Eaton, Miss F. M. (Slaughter Reform). (s) 1 1 O
Eaton, Miss F. M. (coll) Q 0
Ebden, Miss M. B. (Slaughter Reform). (d) :1 0
Eden, Mrs. (s) 3 6
Edwards, Mrs. (“The Deva Ladye”) (coll) 5 0
Edwards, Mrs. (“The Deva Ladye”) .. (coll) 5 0
Edwards, Miss A. Hope (Slaughter Reform) (d) 10 O 0

84

 

 

 




 

 

Edwards Miss A. Hope (Slaughter Reform)

Edwards, Miss A. Hope
Einlerg, Miss
Eveiest, Miss

Fan11\,Sister ..

Fai1less, Miss S. A. ..
Fenwick, The Rev. and Mrs. J.
Fletcher Miss M. E.
Foote, Lady

Foote, Lady

Forbes, Mrs. George

Forbes, [\he Hon. Mrs. .
F01111illi, Mrs. (Slaughter Reform).
Forsyth, I\Iiss ..

Franks, Miss Sydney (Slaughter Reform)
Franks Miss Sydney .
Freeman M iss Doris

Freml 111 :1I1s. (1. J

“ Friend, A ”

“ Friend, A ”

From a Fox .

Furner, Miss E. N.

Furner, Miss E. N.

Gai1d11er, \Iiss

Gates, \Iis P. G. (Slaughter Reform)
German Mrs. Hector .

Gibbs, The Misses

Gilchrist, Iames, Esq.

Gillespie. Miss Christine

Gilmore, Mrs. VV. E. ..

Glanville, Miss Mabel

Glanvilie, Miss \Iabel.

Goodacre,I\I1s. H.

Goodwin, M15. Wycliffe .

Green, W. Esq. (Slaughter Reform)
Green, Miss (Slaughter Reform).
G1e1 ille Mi ss .

Grieve, Miss E. de W. (Slaughter Reform)
Grieve, Miss E. de W. (Slaughter Reform)
Griexweson Miss

Grifﬁn \Iiss V. C01y (Victoria Cioss).
Grifﬁths, M15. F. E.

Grinling, D. G., Esq.
Grox'e-Grady,1\Irs.

Grove—Grady, )Irs.

Groves, Mrs. (Slaughter Reform).
Gulland, Miss E.

Guppy, Mrs Robinson

Haig, The Hon. Mrs. A. B.
Haig, Miss (Slaughter Reform)
Hall, L. R, Esq. ..

85

Hr—i

Hh-lp—A

Hit-4H

1—11 b»)

O
H
NONNNOV

1—1 Hi—s 1—1 r—n—A m
OOONHOHQOOHHmOOOOU‘IO 0000.

1—11 h—lh—lD—J 1—1 1—H—A
wi—ioooommmmom

1—;
OUINOOH

10

ocoo 9‘

COOOCOOOOCDCDOOQOOO‘DO

OOOOOQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO‘GO

COO

 




 

 

Hall, L. P., Esq.

Hall, Miss Mary

Halliday, Miss A.

IIaInes, hIrs. CL .H

IIanukon,lDuke of

IIannhon,])uke of .
IIanﬁkon,lDuchess of H.

Hamilton, Duchess of

Hamilton, Miss Jane

Hammond, Miss M

Harding, Miss E.

Harris, ReV. Charles IC. B.

Harrison, C. W., Esq. .

Harrison, C. W., Esq..

Harrison, Miss I .

IIart, J". IIopgood, :Esq.

Hart, Walter C., Esq.

Hart, Walter C., Esq.

Hart, Walter C., Esq.

Hart, Walter C., Esq.

Hart, Mrs. Walter C.

IIaﬁ:, Sanuuﬂ IIopgood, IEsq

IIarvey, Idiss II. In

Hassell, Rev. Canon ..

Hatley, A. I, Esq. ..

Hawkins, Miss Helga (Slaughter Reform)
Hawkins, Mrs. H. C.(Slaughter Reform)
Hawkins, Miss E. .
Haworth, Mrs. Booth

IIaykny )Irs.1)unn

IIealg IIiss Is. ...

Heap, Mrs. E. E.

IIeath., IIrs. 1.. ... .
Heath, Mrs. L. (Slaughter ReIorm)” .
Hedderwick, Mrs. Anna R. C. (Slaughter Reform)
Heginbottom, Hubert, Esq.
Henshaw, Miss P...

Heseltine, E. Esq. (Slaughter Reform).
Heslop, Miss F.
Hill, Mrs. Norman

Hill, Miss A M.

Hillinan, E. Haviland, Esq.

Hodgkin, C. E, Esq.

IIolconabe, \Irs .

Holcombe, Mrs. (Slaughter Reform)
'Holland, Charles, Esq. ..

Hollins, Mrs. D. M.

Holman, Miss D. A. (Slaughter Reform)
Hopkins, Mrs. E. P.

Hough, Mrs. . .

Hughes, Miss E. C. V

Hughes, Miss F.

Hull, Miss .

IItdl, hIiss 1%. C: ...

Hunter, Lady Hughes

U)

r—tv—AH
OOOOQ .

p—n—n
U’lP-‘mP-‘UlUIU'IOOO NNOWU‘IU‘IOOO

L—J
HNHv—AUINOOBJUIHHHONO

oooooooooooooooooooooooocooo0©ococoooooo:oooooooooooooo9

 




 

15 s. d.
Hunter, G. B., Esq. (Slaughter Reform). (d) 1 0 0
Huntley, Marchioness of .. (d) 2 0 0
Huntriss, Miss L. (s) 5 0
Hutchins, Miss A. E. (d) 1 O 0
Ibbotson, Miss Ruth (s) 5 0
Innes, Mrs. Mitchell (Slaughte1 Reform) (d) 10 0
Irving, Miss I. .. (s) 2 6
Irving, Miss V. (d) 5 0
Irving, Miss V. (d) 5 0
Jahn, Mrs. (s) 10 0
James, Brig. Gen C. H. S. (Slaughter Reform) (d) 10 0
Jameson, Miss Victoria (d) 2 6
Jarrett, Miss A. (Slaughter Reform): .. (d) 10 0
Jarrett, Miss A. (d) 2 6
Jenkins, Rev. W. Grifﬁths (coll) 4 2 9
Johns, A. E., Esq. (d) 1 1 0
Jones, John T., Esq. (d) 5 0
Joseph, Mrs. Michael (s) 5 0 0
Kearne, Miss B. (s) 2 2 0
Kearne, Miss L. (s) 1 1 O
Kendall, Miss G. (d) 2 3 4
Kennedy, Miss Margaret (d) 4 6
Kershaw, Mrs. Melville (d) 5 0
King, Mrs. Saba Bushell (Slaughter Reform). ((1) 2 6
Kingsford, Miss E. B. .. (s) 10 6
Kirkpatrick, Miss Ida (s) ‘ 10 0
Knight, Mrs. Baillie (d) 10 0
Knight, Mrs. Baillie (d) 14 0
Knight, Miss Lilian (d) 5 0
Knight, Mrs. (Slaughter Reform) (d) 2 2 0
Knight, W. H., Esq. .. (d) 2 2 0
Knight, Mrs. W. H. (d) 2 2 0
Koeune, The Misses (s) 5 O
'Knoop, Baroness de (s) 5 O 0
Knoop, Baroness de (s) 1 I 0
Lane, Miss (Slaughter Reform) (d) 1 6
Lardelli, Miss (s) 5 0
Large, Mrs. John (s) 5 0
Law, Mrs. Ernest (s) 10 0
Lee, Mrs. E. (s) 7 O
Leigh, Mrs. (Slaughter Reform) (d) 1 0
Leigh, Miss G. (d) 1 O 0
Leigh, Miss (d) 10 0
Lind- af— Hageby (s) 10 0 O
Lind- af— Hageby, Miss (Income on residue of
Estate of the late Mrs. Harford Adlam) 150 0 0
Lindsay, Miss S. T. S. (d) 10 0
Llewellin, Mrs. (d) 1 0 0
Logan, Mrs. . (s) 1 0 0
Logan, Major J. IM. (s) 2 0 0
Logan, Mrs. J.I\ (s) 2 O O

87

 




 

 

 

 

 

Logan, Miss N.
Long, Miss
Lovibond, Miss H. G.
Luck, 1‘Irs. ..
Lupton, 3Irs.
Lutyens, Mrs.

Macalaster, M15. Muii

MacDonnell, Capt. R. (Slaughter ReIo1m)
MacDonnell, Miss L.

Macdonnell, Miss L. (Slaughter ReIorm).
Macdonnell, Miss L.

MacGeorge, Miss F.

Macpherson, \V. R, Esq. (Slaughter Refoim)

MacTaggart. 3Irs.

Maguire, P. I Esq. (Slaughter ReI01n1)
Makepeace, Mrs. Colye1 .
Manders, Miss

Manning, Miss

Marras, Mrs. Mowbray”

Masham, Miss E. . .

Massy, 3I1s. G. I.

Mauran, Mrs. H. F.

Meadows, Miss F. E.

Meriy. Mrs. T.

Messeder, Miss Amy

Miles, Mr. Derwent ..

Miles, Mrs. Derwent

Miller, Mrs. ..

Miller, Mrs.

Millery, Miss

Millery, Miss

Mills, Miss M. A. H. ..

Mitchell, M1s. W.

Moger, Mis.

“3Iorag’ .”

Morgan, Mis. H. H. .

Mor1ell, Maik, Esq. (Slaughtei Reform).
Moriis . ..
Mor1is, Miss M. E.

Mott, Miss B. E.

Mulhallen, Miss Brew

Munro, M15. (Slaughter Refoim).

Newcastle Meeting, Collection at
Newman, Mrs. R. M...

Newman, Miss B. E.

Newman, Miss B. E

Nolloth, Rev. Canon

Northcott, Miss

Nutting, Miss M.

Odette, Miss Ma1y
Office Collecting Box
Oliver, Mrs.

88

p—J
OOONNHE”

)—A

1—1 1—- 1-4
OU‘IONOOb—JNb—‘N’JIOONLRLHU'IUIUIH

NOOUIU‘INNNUIOOQN

y...‘
H
O

cacao 0000099 QOOCOOQOQ‘O‘OOOOOoanocococooocamggoco oooooo?‘

 

 




 

 

29 s. d.

Olsen, Miss .. s 10 6
O’Neil, Miss Ellen Ed)) 1 3
Overall, A. ,..Esq (s) 1 1 0
Owen, Miss M. (d) 2 2
Page, \Iis. (s) 10 0
Paget, Miss Alberta (s) 1 0 O
Paget, Major J. B. (£01 distribution oI publ1cat10ns) (d) 25 O 0
Paine, Miss Lewis (s) 5 0
Palairet, Mrs. (d) l 0 O
Palairet, \I15 (5) 1 0 O
Partridge, Miss St. John (Old Horse TraIﬁc). (d) 5 O O
Partridge, Miss St. John . (d) 5 0
Paulet, \Iiss (Slaughter Reform). (d) l 1 0
Peabody, Mrs. Anna May (s) 10 0
Peacock, Miss A E. (Slaughter Reform) (d) ‘5 0
Pee], Mrs. C. (Slaughter Reform)... (d) 5 0
Pena, Mme. de (Slaughter Reform) (d) 5 0 0
Peniston, Miss .. (s) 1 0 I)
Pender, Lady (s) 1 1 0
Pender, Lady (Slaughter Reform) (d) 10 6
Perkins, \Irs. E. A. .. (s) 15 0
Petit Molle (s) 5 0
Phillips, Miss Faudel (Slaughter ReIorm) (d) 5 0 0
Pickard— Cambridge, Miss .. (s) 10 O
Pinckney, Miss F. S. (Slaughter Reform) (d) 2 0 0
Pitt, Mis. (Slaughte1 Reform) (d) 5 0
Pollock, \Irs. Maiian (d) 1 1 0
Pontifex, Miss (Slaughter ReIorm): (d) l 0
Porter, E G., Esq. . (s) 2 O 0
Porter: Miss (s) 2 6
Poulter, Miss C. (coll) 7 0
Poulter, Miss C. (d) 4 0
Prescott, Hugh, Esq (d) 5 0
Prescott, Hugh Esq.(1 (Slaughter Reform) (d) 5 0
Quicke, Miss E. P. (d) 5 0
Rabbits, F1om the (d) 5 0 0
Raffles, Mrs. (s) 2 6
Ramsgate Meeting .. .. (coll) l4 0
Redmayne, \Irs. (d) 2 O
Reeve, Miss (s) 2 6
Renton, Miss C. (d) 1 1 0
Renton, Miss C. (s) 2 2 O
Renton, Miss C. (s) 15 0
Rieschbeth, Miss (s) 1 1 0
Roberts, Mrs E. N. (s) 10 O
Roberts, F. W., Esq. (Slaughter Reform) (s) 10 0
Roberts, Mrs. (s) 5 0
Robertson, Mrs. (s) 5 0
Robeson, Miss A M. . (s) 5 0
Robinson, Miss E. M. (Slaughter ReIorm) (s) 5 O
Rolleston, Miss Daisy (s) 5 0
Rose, R. W, Esq. (s) 5 0
Rowbotham, Rev. q]. E, D..D (coll) 11 7

 




 

 

 

 

 

Rowland, Miss D.

Rowland I\Iiss K.

Rudge Miss V. A (Slaughter Reform).
Russell, The AIisses (Slaughter Reform).
Russell, A I. (3., Esq. (Slaughter Reform)

Sadler, IVII‘S.
Salomonson I
Sanders,1Miss
Sangster E. A. 5:1.

Savage, AIiss AI.

Savile, Go1don, Esq.

Sawers, Miss E. . . . .

Schartau. Miss L. K.

Scholeﬁeld, E. Esq. '

Scholeﬁeid, AIrs.

Scott, Miss E. AI.

Sellon, Miss A. E. (Slaughter Reform)
Shakespeare, H. AN. R., Esq”
Shand, Mrs. A. M. ..

Shand AIis. A. AI.

Sharpe, Mrs.

Ii 9 5 Alice

Sheppar,d I\I1“s. II. (In memory of Leslie Banks,

Gallipoli 1915)
Simpson, AIis. M. .
Simon La dy (Siaughtei Reform).
“Sinners Offering, A’ ”
Slade Mrs. B. (Slaughter Reform).
Sina llman Edward C. (Slaughter Reform)
Smith AIrs Cunliffe
Smith, The AIisses
Smith .AIiss E. J. .
Smithiield Cattle Show
Smithson, AIrs. .
Smyth, .AIrs.
“ Soul to Soul ’
“ Soul to Soul ”

- Southe3, AIiss \1 Iii ifred (Slaughter Reform)

Spackman, C. E. Esq.

Spackman, \A'} Esq.

Spackman AIiss C .

Spieer Miss I). (Slaughter Reform)
S11ie1“,s Mrs. ‘v'ictor

Stacey. E. C. Esq. .

Stanton Mrs. (Slaughter Reform).
Steirni H2 ll Meeting ..
Stewart. I‘Irs. ‘1‘. alter DShaw
Stibbs, Mrs. M. . .

Stockweil AIrs. .

Story IIrs.
Strangc, Ii :55 V. L.
trauss AIrs.

Stuart, AIiss (Sl aaghter Reform)
Sullivan, (Iiss .onnica (Slaughter Reform)

90

NH

P—‘H [“Q

b—u—Ar—A [.3

1.4
(.11 r-t N ¥--* :3

[Q

l—‘N

N .p. H

H

H
C (3 Ex) (J1 {‘Q [‘0 F" C

h—v‘

NNNHNOIQI‘QUIO[\D[‘QN€J‘IU‘I.'~J1N\!U1‘~OOVHUIO’JioUUnQN

1—H—tr—t
OO'CCDCDVCD”

r—H—AOLﬁUIS"

.‘
v

’.

cocooﬁ

       
 
     
       

OOOQOQOOOOQOGCSWO

QOQOOOOOQCOOOOOOQC‘OOCD‘QWOOOOCOOO




    

Summer, John, Esq. (Slaughter Reform).
Swanberg, Dr.
Swanherg, Mrs.

TaI‘sot, NIrs. I. A. (Slaughter Reform)
Tea Party Fund

Ihesiger, Mrs. Ernest

Ihesiger, Mrs. Ernest

Thomas,y Mrs. Dacres ..

Thomas. Mrs. E.

Thomas. NIrs. E. ..

Thomson, Mrs. Hedlev.

Thoriington, 1N‘Ii‘. and NIrs. E
Thwaites, Mrs.

Tibbles, Mrs.

Tibbles, Mrs.

Tibbles, Mrs.

Timewell. Mrs.

Toison, Legh, Esq.

Trachy, Mrs. C. S.

Trangmar, E, Esq.

Turner, Miss Helen

Turner Iiss Helen

Turner, Lt. -Col. E.

Turner Miss Mary (Slaughter Ixerorm).
Tyler, NIiss Theo ..

Ulster SPCA. (Proceeds of Bazaar)

N allot, NIdI le. A.
N annan. Mrs. M. E. (Slaughter Reform) . .
Nannan, Mrs. M. E.
Vav» (Ire; M1 5.
Viccars, Miss

VN’addingham, Mrs.
VVaIlis, Miss S. J. .
W'aishe, F. NM, Esq. . .
N/N’all ;NIr.s A. F.

NV 211 (1 Mrs. Dudley

NNatson, Fitzglaham, Esq. (SIaughter Reform)

Watson, Mrs. Iueedie (Slaughter Reform)
VN’e axer, NIiss H “S

N’Net’o, Miss r. (pei 1.Iiss IardeIli) ..
NN’ebb, Miss .

N/N’eekes Miss H. A.

Weekes, Miss H. A. .. ..
W eiga11,1\Iiss (Slaughter Reform)
NNCI £11. :‘I 155 . ..
VVeich. Harold R. Esq. ..
NNhaIle} M15. (S‘duehtm' Reform).
Whitley. Mrs S. B. . . .
Whitney, 1\Irs.

NN’hytc-, Mrs. Bell

Wilde, Mrs. A. de

VViIliams, Miss

HHH

Hmmm

Iv-‘b—lU'l

LII

Hp—AHH

DQHH

1...;

1.4

1—4
NNHOONNONCOO HHHW

H
CHOU'IN

Hy—A lr—‘k—l

y—A
N-POOOmONOOOOHHOr-ANOMOUI CDC)

h—l

PQmOCC‘D

*‘W—‘N Ln

. , ﬂ
C;»:3:)<3::@©Q\®O\U\O\'~‘:DCDC‘s39063900 C300 1'"

CD

$9996»

OOOOOOOGOOOOOOOOOO\OOO

      




 

 

 

 

\Nillians, Mrs. S. G. (Slaughter Reform)..
Willifer, Mrs. ..

Willis, Mrs. Bright (Slaughter Refoim)
Willis, Mrs. Bright
Willis, Miss Edith

Wilson, W. A. Esq.-

Wilson, Rev. D. . .

“ Windfall ”

“ Windfall ”

“ Windfall ”

“ Windfall ”

“ Windfall ”

“ Wind fall ”

“ Windfall ” ..

\Nithall, Mrs. H.

Woodiﬁeld, Miss

Wolff, Mrs. A. de

Wolff, Mrs. A. de

Woods, Miss Charlotte E (Slaug‘ utei Reform)

Wrensted, M15. (Slaughte1 lxefor 1.1.
Wright, Miss C...
Wynne, Mrs. S. P.
Wynne, Mrs. S. P.

Yandell, Miss ..

Yarrow, Lady (Slaughter lxeform)
Yates, Miss .
Youde, Mr. and Mrs.

Youde, Mr. and Mrs.

Youde, Mr. and Mrs. ..

 

 

(J1

1...;

(31-4

b—J H
OOONOOHr—‘NOS”

9-4 )..A

L—l
NHWNQU‘IOOOC

P—‘L—JH
COO

1......
LHOCIQOCD

QQOOOO OAOOOQOOOQOOOOOOOOOOQOOQ




The Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society.
Year ending December 3lst 1924

 

EXPENDITURE

. d.
To Balance from 14'“ i131 count - 1,927 l 1 By Publications, Printing and Stationery 473 16 1
(Including, 565: 1:0 in gifts fin Model Abattoii) Kent and Office AICXINIISCS 360 8 5

Subsciptions, Donations and Collections 1,82513 3 n MCCUHS‘S, chflll‘CS, SDCCIEI Campaggnss
Humane Slaughter Demonstrations,

51W?“ Donatlon for Hum” Ed] ”“0“ ; Stalls and Exhibitions at Shows 437 18 2
and Additional Ixooms ' ‘09 0 Salaries and Clerical Assistance 641 1011
Building Model Abattoir _ 1:1 0 PostaO‘e and Telephone 26211
0
2

H

H

Le0'acy Displayed Adx ertis ements in Press 479 9
‘3 Storage, Sorting and Carriage of Publica—
ile‘?» ’1 Interest on DCPOSit ‘ tions 5219
Duldfmds Paid by Trustee Of Uruguav ,, Humane Slaughter Appliances 258 5
Bonds bequeathed by the late Capt. H ,, Leoal Expenses, Bank3 Charges, Audit Fee 20 3
Quintanilha . 13 11 4 Hubmane Exhibition,3,01d Bond Street, 0
U . . ' Premium . 2 0 0
Sale Of Humane Slauohtei Appliances 153 8 ,, Installation and Exhibits 217 0
Sundry Sales ... 3 16 7 Legal Expenses ... .. .. 12 10
Amount Trransfe red to Model Abattoi
Fund, 1923 and 1924, Donors 20 1
Balance December 3lst, at Bank and in
Hand 1,110 9

H

0000'?

113G GOLF.

O\

U

’1

OVOOQ

 

 

 

£4,547 3 3 £_4, 547 3 3
B. C. DELIUS, Hon. Treasurer.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Receipts and Payments with the books and vouchers relating thereto, and found it to be correct.

I have examined the above statement of Cash
C. K. VOKINS, C.A.,

Norfolk House, Laurence Pountney Hill, Cannon Street, E.C.4.
3rd June, 1925' Auditor.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

SOME PUBLICATIONS of the

ANIMAL

DEFENCE and ANTI-VIVi-SECTION SOCIETY

35, OLD BOND

Anti-Vivisection Admissions and Recom-
mendations in the Report of the Royal
Commission on Vivisection. 16 pages.
Price 6d. per dozen.

Dr. George Wilson’s Reservation Memor-
andum to the Report of the Royal
Commission on Vivisection. Reprinted
by permission of Dr. George \Vilson
and His Majesty’s Stationery Ofﬁce.
Free. 96 pages.

The Truth About Vivisection: No. 1.
(Replies to the Research Defence,
Society.) Do experiments on living
animals, as carried out under the Act

tO-day, cause pain"? Illustrated. Price
6d. per 100 copies.
The Truth About Vivisection : No. 2.

(Replies to the Research Defence
Society.) A chart showing that cruel
experiments are permitted under the
present law, and how it is administered.
How medical students are now taught
Illustrated.

Vivisection. Price 1s. per

1 0 0 copies.

Experiments on Dogs. Do they cause
pain? Examples of scientiﬁc cruelty
with reference to the Dogs’ Bill.
Illustrated. Price 6d. per 100 copies.

and the Ministry of
Free.

Personal Liberty
Health. Fourteen Points.

Vivisection under the Insurance Act.
Leaﬂet NO. 2. Letters by DR.
CHRISTOPHER ADDISON, M..P., and Miss
LIND-AF-HAGEBY.

Evidence before the Royal Commission on
Vivisection. Given by Miss LIND-AF~
HAGEB'Y on May 1st and June 5th,
1907. With Appendices relating to her
Controversy with the Vivisectors im-
pugned in the “ Shambles of Science.”
Answers to 1,111 Questions, 237 pages.

Bound in green cloth or in paper
cover.

A Public Debate between W. D.
Halliburton, Esq., M..,D FRHS Pro-

fessor of Physiology at King’s College, _

London, and Miss Lind-af-H‘ageby.
Held at the Portman Rooms on May 16th,
1907. Price 4d, post free.

The Brown Dog and his Memorial, by
EDWARD K. FORD. Illustrated. An

STREET, 1V1.

account of the Brown Dog Riots, and
an inquiry into their psychology and
purport. Written in an attractive and
trenchant style. Price 7d,, post free.
Six copies 2s. 6d.

The Animals’ Cause : 3eing Papers con-
tributed to the International Anti-
Vivisection and Animal Protection
Congress, July 6-10th, 1909. Edited by
- LIND-A]«‘-I‘I.~\LlliBY. Price «5's. bound
A Humanitarian Text-book of 379
pages, dealing with every aspect of

animal protection.

Proceedings of the International Anti-
Vivisection and Animal Protection
Congress, held at Washington, Dec. 8:11
to 11th, 1913. 207 pages. Price 1s.

The Chain of Love, by THE Di’CliESS or
HAMILTON AND BRANDON. Price 3d.

Our Debt to the Animals, by ALICE
ABADAM. Price 3d.

Do you, as a Voter and Taxpa'er, wish
to be responsible for Vivisection?
Free.

What is Vivisection? Price 6d. per

100 copies.

Disease and Vivisectional Research, by
ROBERT H. PERKS‘, MD EROS.
P‘rice 1d.

Vivisectional Errors from the Point of
View of Surgery, by DR. POVEAU DE
COCRMELLES, Paris. Price 1d.

Fallacies and Failures of Seru m Therapg,
by L LI\D- AI‘wHAGEBY. Price 3d.

The Deadly Eﬁect of Anti-rabic Inocu-
latlons, Land 11. by DR. HENRY
BOUCHER. Price 1d.

The Better Way in Diphtheria Treatment,
by DR. H. VALENTINE KNAGGS. Price
1d.

Anti-typhoid Vaccination in its Various
Aspects. Opinions of many medIcal
men in Europe and America.

The True
VALENTINE KNAGGS.

Germ Theory, by DR. H.
Price 1d.

94

 




 

PUBLICATIONS.——(Cont'inued.)

Anaphylaxis—A Grave Evil of Serum
Treatment, by DR. ARABELLA KENEALY.
Price 2d.

The Futility of Experiments on Animals,
by DR. H. FERGIE WOODS. Price 2d.

Is Vivisection Morally Justiﬁable and
Scientiﬁcally Necessary ? A Debate
between the Catholic Students’ Union
of the University of Edinburgh and the
Scottish Society for the Prevention of
Vivisection. P‘rice 3d.

Vivisection Experiments before Students.
Free.

Vivisection and Sentiment. Free.

Does Vivisection Cse Pain? Free.
Deeds of Dogs. Free.

Sport, by SIR GEORGE Gummmon. Price
2d.

An Appeal to Dog Owners. Free.

 

SOME SLAUGHTER REFORM
PUBLICATIONS

Why Slaughterhouse Reform is Necessary.
With extracts from letters of sympathy
from Thomas Hardy, Maurice Hewlett,
John Galsworthy, Algernon Blackwood,
Beatrice Harraden, Hall Caine, Sarah
Grand, Mona Caird, etc. Free.

Statement of Evidence and Recommenda-
tions, submitted by the DUCHESS or
HAMILTON and Miss LIND-AF-HAGEBY,
on behalf of the Animal Defence Society
to the Cabinet Committee appointed to
consider the Slaughter of Animals. Free.

Twelve Years’ Experience of Humane
Slaughter. By H. TOOMER. -

Our Case for Slaughter Reform. Free.

Memorandum on the Jewish Method of
Slaughtering Animals for Food. (First
Memorandum.) Free.

The Financial and. Business Side of the
Jewish Method of Slaughter. Second
Memorandum. Free.

Evidence of Cruelty Caused by the Pole-
Axe. Free.

An Urgent Appeal to Women. Free.

The Gay Dinner—Table, by L. LIND-AF~

HAGEBY. Free.

Market Day, by L. K. SCHARTAU. Free.

 

x
I
v
I

'r
I

95

Humane Killer Booklet, with
instructions and testimonials.
for two dozen.

diagrams,
Price 6d.

Speech by the Duchess of Hamilton,- at
Public Meeting, held on July 7th, 1922.
Free.

Facts about our Slaughterhouses, by
JOHN DODDS, Late Superintendent of
the Carlisle Public Slaughterhouses.
Price 2s. per 100.

An Expert. Befutes Objections to the
Humane Slaughter Bill. A reply to the
Meat Tram, by JOHN Bonus. Free.

Essential Points in Slaughter Reform.

Free.

Report on the Demonstration on
Slaughtering Methods, Organised by
the National Federation of Meat
Traders’ Association. and held in
Birmingham. Free.

Humanely-Kﬂled Meat. Price Es. per
1.00.

The Scandal of Britain’s Slaughterhouses,
by THE DIE-CHESS or HAMILTON. Price

2s. per 100.

Evidence that Pork and Bacon are not
Spoilt by the Use of the Humane Killer.
Speech by DR. M. J. ROWLANDS.
Free.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

ST. CLEMENTS PRESS, LTD.,
PORTUGAL STREET,
KIN GSVVAY,

W.C.2.

LI:

 




 

k

ON'IMMORTALITY.

A LETTER T 0 BARRY, A DOG,
By_ L. LlND -_AF- 5 HAGEBY. ,
(m Life-Story dud Life-Philosophy of dl'j‘wicked“ Dog.)
THIRD EDITION.

 

 

PRICE, 1 5.
By Pest,” Is. lid. Six Copies, Post Free 53. 6d. ‘

“ It is a little essay, very charmingly written, describing the career and
character of her St. Bernard Dog, the philosophic point of the essay being the
subtle drawing of the parallel between the dog’s faults and virtues and the traits
, on which mankind (and especially man)pride themselves as evidence of a higher

destiny.”'-—Scotsman. , - ' 7 .

 

 

 




